Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
portante	portante	NOUN	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
avrà	avere	VERB	V	conj
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cominciare	cominciare	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	obl
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	A	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Noi	Noi	PRON	PE	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrassegnato	contrassegnare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nostro	Nostro	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
Segretario	Segretario	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servirà	servire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodito	custodire	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Archivio	Archivio	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
eseguirà	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmetterne	trasmettere ne	VERB	V_PC	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	obj
stampato	stampare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sala	sala	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
esposto	esposto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ognuno	ognuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prenderne	prendere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ordiniamo	Ordiniamo	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserto	inserre	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mandando	mandare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
S.	S.	PROPN	SP	obl
Rossore	Rossore	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1930	1930	NUM	N	flat
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Anno	Anno	NOUN	SP	obl
VIII	VIII	ADJ	SP	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
VITTORIO	VITTORIO	PROPN	SP	obl
EMANUELE	EMANUELE	PROPN	SP	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Mussolini	Mussolini	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Rocco	rocco	PROPN	SP	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	vedere	VERB	V	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Rocco	rocco	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Registrato	registrato	VERB	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1930-VIIII	1930-VIIII	NUM	N	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Atti	atti	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nummod
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	parataxis
58	58	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Mancini	Mancini	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
LIBRO	LIBRO	NOUN	S	nmod
PRIMO	PRIMO	ADJ	A	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	case
REATI	REATI	PROPN	SP	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	SP	case
GENERALE	GENERALE	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PRIMO	PRIMO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	case
LEGGE	LEGGE	PROPN	SP	amod
PENALE	PENALE	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CODICE	CODICE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
PENALE	PENALE	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Successione	Successione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituiva	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
posteriore	posteriore	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
posteriore	posteriore	PROPN	S	nmod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
converte	convertire	VERB	V	conj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
posteriori	posteriore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevoli	favorevole	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
ratifica	ratifica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
emendamenti.(103	emendamenti.(103	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obbligatorietà	Obbligatorietà	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Principio	Principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nuove	Nuove	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotte	introdovere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificano	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
organico	organico	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cittadino	Cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	xcomp
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colonie	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
sudditi	suddito	NOUN	S	conj
coloniali	coloniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apolidi	apolido	NOUN	S	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	ROOT
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colonie	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ignoranza	Ignoranza	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
invocare	invocare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
scusa	scusa	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ignoranza	ignoranza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
109	109	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
verificato	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	appos
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
italiano	italiano	ADJ	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	NO	nummod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatto	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	amod
corso	corso	NOUN	S	amod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
violando	violare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5°	5°	NOUN	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl

per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	appos
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADJ	A	case
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela.(158	querela.(158	PROPN	SP	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
delitto	delitto	VERB	V	ROOT
politico	politico	ADJ	A	xcomp
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	acl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato.(5	Stato.(5	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648	648	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
648-ter.1	648-ter.1	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	appos
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
querela	querela	ADV	B	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa.(5	offesa.(5	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni;(5	anni;(5	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
317	317	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
352	352	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinnovamento	rinnovamento	PROPN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importerebbe	importere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	appos
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
condannata	condannare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prosciolta	proscioltare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4°	4°	ADV	NO	ROOT

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
porta	portare	VERB	V	advcl
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esser	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	aux
trattato	trattare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
estera	estero	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
egualmente	egualmente	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4°	4°	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estradizione	Estradizione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolata	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
forma	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	advcl
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Computo	Computo	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
dipendere	dipendere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ogni	ogni	ADV	B	det
qual	quale	PRON	PQ	case
volta	volta	NOUN	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Materia	Materia	PROPN	SP	appos
regolata	regolare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
deroga	derogare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Leggi	legge	NOUN	S	appos
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
regolate	regolare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	dep
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SECONDO	SECONDO	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLE	DELLE	DET	E_RD	fixed
PENE	PENE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
I	i	DET	RD	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	X	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

LUOGOTENZIALE	LUOGOTENZIALE	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1944	1944	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	nmod
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	N	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	VERB	V	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	NO	ROOT

l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
restrittive	restrittiva	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	VERB	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitte	inflitre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
accessorie	accessoria	ADJ	A	nsubj
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20-bis	20-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	nsubj
sostitutive	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
brevi	breve	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostitutive	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	NOUN	SP	obl:agent
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
semilibertà	semilibertà	NOUN	S	ROOT
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutivo	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
semilibertà	semilibertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutivo	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DA	DA	PROPN	SP	nmod
RITENERSI	RITENERSI	PROPN	SP	punct
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
A	a	PROPN	SP	nmod
SEGUITO	SEGUITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELL'	DELL'	ADP	E	punct
ABOLIZIONE	ABOLIZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
PENA	PENA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
MORTE	MORTE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DISPOSTA	DISPOSTA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

LUOGOTENZIALE	LUOGOTENZIALE	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1944	1944	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	NOUN	S	conj
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ergastolo	Ergastolo	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	conj
notturno	notturno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aperto	aperto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1962	1962	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
1634	1634	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1962	1962	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
1634	1634	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	conj
notturno	notturno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scontato	scontare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aperto	aperto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Multa	Multa	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aggiungere	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
25.000	25.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Arresto	Arresto	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	conj
notturno	notturno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
addetto	addetto	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
organizzati	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attitudini	attitudine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
occupazioni	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ammenda	Ammenda	NOUN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
fisse	fire	VERB	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proporzionali	proporzionale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fisse	fisse	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proporzionali	proporzionale	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	SP	amod
proporzionali	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
priva	privo	ADJ	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elettorato	elettorato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eleggibilità	eleggibilità	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
comizio	comizio	NOUN	S	nmod
elettorale	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	ADJ	N	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
attinente	attinere	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	conj
accademiche	accademico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorazioni	decorazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
insegne	insegna	NOUN	S	conj
onorifiche	onorifico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5°	5°	NOUN	S	advcl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipendi	stipendio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico;(34	pubblico;(34	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6°	6°	ADJ	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
onorifico	onorifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorazioni	decorazione	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7°	7°	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorazione	decorazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
insegna	insegna	NOUN	S	conj
onorifica	onorifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
priva	privo	ADJ	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
godere	godere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
onorificenze.(34	onorificenze.(34	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
importano	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
priva	privo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3°	3°	PUNCT	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32-bis	32-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
priva	privo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sindaco	sindaco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidatore	liquidatore	NOUN	S	appos


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigente	dirigente	ADJ	A	conj
preposto	preposto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
societari	societare	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprenditore	imprenditore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32-ter	32-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incapacità	Incapacità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	acl
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32-quater	32-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-bis	316-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-ter	316-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NOUN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
353	353	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
355	355	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
356	356	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416	416	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
437	437	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quater	452-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-sexies	452-sexies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-septies	452-septies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quaterdecies	452-quaterdecies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
501	501	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
501-bis	501-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
640	640	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
640-bis	640-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
644	644	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
imprenditoriale	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32-quinquies	32-quinquies	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
31	31	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
prevalente	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	appos
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensionere	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	essa	PRON	PE	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
368	368	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
privazione	privazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
IX	IX	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
IX	IX	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	SP	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
priva	privo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	SP	appos
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
priva	privo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sindaco	sindaco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidatore	liquidatore	NOUN	S	appos


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigente	dirigente	ADJ	A	conj
preposto	preposto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
societari	societare	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprenditore	imprenditore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
affissione	affissione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comune	Comune	PROPN	SP	obl
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
aveva	avere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza.(5	residenza.(5	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
capoversi	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
determinata	determinato	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
eguale	eguale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
scontarsi	scontare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
insolvibilità	insolvibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
oltrepassare	oltrepassare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizione	Condizione	NOUN	SP	appos
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
equiparato	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reato	Reato	PROPN	SP	appos
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
distinguono	distinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
causalità	causalità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cagionarlo	cagionare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
preesistenti	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simultanee	simultanee	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sopravvenute	sopravvenuta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
indipendenti	indipendente	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
causalità	causalità	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sopravvenute	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
escludono	escludore	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
causalità	causalità	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
sole	sole	NOUN	S	advcl
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
preesistente	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
simultanea	simultaneare	NOUN	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sopravvenuta	sopravvenere	VERB	V	conj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	Responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
preterintenzionale	preterintenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
obiettiva	obiettivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
preveduta	prevedure	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
coscienza	coscienza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preterintenzionale	preterintenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	conj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
cosciente	cosciente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
dolosa	doloso	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Elemento	Elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
doloso	doloso	ADJ	A	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
dipendere	dipendere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	advcl
preveduto	preveduto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
voluto	volere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
preterintenzionale	preterintenzionale	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intenzione	intenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
voluto	volere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
negligenza	negligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprudenza	imprudenza	NOUN	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imperizia	imperizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
discipline	discipline	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
doloso	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
qualvolta	qualvolta	ADV	B	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
dipendere	dipendere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizione	Condizione	PROPN	SP	appos
obiettiva	obiettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
voluto	volere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Caso	caso	NOUN	S	appos
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costringimento	costringimento	PROPN	SP	appos
fisico	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
stato	essere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
costretto	costretto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
poteva	potere	AUX	VM	aux
resistere	resistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
costretta	costretto	ADJ	A	amod
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Errore	Errore	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Errore	Errore	PROPN	SP	appos
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ingannata	ingannato	ADJ	A	amod
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commetterlo	commettere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
supposto	supposto	ADJ	A	amod
erroneamente	erroneamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
supposizione	supposizione	NOUN	S	obl
erronea	erroneo	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
inesistenza	inesistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
commesso	commettere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prosciolto	prosciolto	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	VERB	V	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
lede	ledere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
validamente	validamente	ADV	B	advmod
disporne	disporre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Risponde	risponde	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
obbedire	obbedire	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
illegittimo	illegittimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
sindacato	sindacato	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimità	legittimità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	appos
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costretto	costringere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
difendere	difendere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
ingiusta	ingiusta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proporzionata	proporzionare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
614	614	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj
legittimamente	legittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
usa	usare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obj
legittimamente	legittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
difendere	difendere	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	PP	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	ROOT
propri	proprio	ADJ	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
desistenza	desistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
aggressione	aggressione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprenditoriale	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
agisce	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
colui	colui	PRON	PD	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compie	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
respingere	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intrusione	intrusione	NOUN	S	obj
posta	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coazione	coazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coazione	coazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costretto	costringere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
respingere	respingere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vincere	vincere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
consumazione	consumazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strage	strage	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
aviatorio	aviatorio	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disastro	disastro	NOUN	E	case
ferroviario	ferroviario	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omicidio	omicidio	NOUN	S	conj
volontario	volontario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapina	rapino	ADJ	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mano	mano	NOUN	S	obl
armata	armato	NOUN	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
presti	presta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coazione	coazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costretto	costringere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
salvare	salvare	VERB	V	acl
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	appos
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
causato	causare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
evitabile	evitabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
proporzionato	proporzionato	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esporsi	esporre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
minacciata	minacciato	ADJ	A	amod
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
costretta	costringere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commetterlo	commettere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Eccesso	Eccesso	PROPN	SP	appos
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	det:poss
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
52	52	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
53	53	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
54	54	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eccedono	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
colposamente	colposamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
imposti	imporre	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salvaguardia	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	parataxis
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
turbamento	turbamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitto	Delitto	PROPN	SP	appos
tentato	tentato	VERB	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
compie	compiere	VERB	V	parataxis
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretti	diretti	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
equivoco	equivoco	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
tentato	tentato	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
compie	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
tentato	tentato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilita	stabilito	VERB	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	A	amod
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	nsubj
desiste	desirre	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuti	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
tentato	tentato	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	appos
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salva	Salva	PROPN	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
vice	vice	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
omette	ometto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodico	periodico	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	ccomp
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo.(36	terzo.(36	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
57-bis	57-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
editore	editore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ignoto	ignoto	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampatore	stampatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
editore	editore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stampa	Stampa	NOUN	S	appos
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58-bis	58-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedibilità	Procedibilità	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
commesso	commettere	ADJ	V	acl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vice	vice	ADJ	S	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
editore	editore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stampatore	stampatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	PD	det
commesso	commesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosciute	conosciere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
erroneamente	erroneamente	ADV	B	advmod
supposte	supposto	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attenuano	attenuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosciute	conosciuto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aggravano	aggravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
conosciute	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ignorate	ignorato	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritenute	ritenuta	NOUN	S	conj
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Errore	Errore	PROPN	SP	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offeso	offeso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
poste	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
offeso	offeso	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpevole	colpevole	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invece	invece	ADV	B	advmod
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
erroneamente	erroneamente	ADV	B	advmod
supposte	supposto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fisiche	fisica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
psichiche	psichico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	appos
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Aggravano	Aggravano	PROPN	V	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
abietti	abietto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
futili	futile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	PD	ROOT

l'	il	DET	RD	obj
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguirne	eseguire ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occultarne	occultare ne	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
impunità	impunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	avere	VERB	V	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4°	4°	ADJ	NO	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adoperato	adoperato	NOUN	S	ROOT
sevizie	sevizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
crudeltà	crudeltà	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
profittato	profittare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	PRON	PD	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privata	privato	ADJ	A	conj
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6°	6°	ADJ	N	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spedito	spedire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7°	7°	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	avere	VERB	V	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
offendono	offendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8°	8°	ADJ	NO	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aggravare	aggravare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9°	9°	ADJ	NO	ROOT

l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	averee	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10°	10°	NOUN	NO	nsubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivestita	rivestire	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
cattolico	cattolico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
culto	culto	NOUN	S	conj
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatico	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11°	11°	NOUN	NO	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
domestiche	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coabitazione	coabitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ospitalità	ospitalità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale.(217	nazionale.(217	SYM	SYM	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11-ter	11-ter	PROPN	SP	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adiacenze	adiacenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-quater	11-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-quinquies	11-quinquies	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravidanza	gravidanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-sexies	11-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ricoverate	ricoverare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
sociosanitarie	sociosanitario	ADJ	A	amod
residenziali	residenziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
semiresidenziali	semiresidenziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
educative	educative	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-septies	11-septies	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-octies	11-octies	NOUN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
socio	socio	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
ausiliarie	ausiliaria	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-novies	11-novies	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	NO	amod
scolastico	scolastico	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
docente	docente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ausiliario	ausiliario	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11-decies	11-decies	NUM	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	PRON	RD	obj
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
offendono	offendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediate	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
adiacenze	adiacenza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ferroviarie	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metropolitane	metropolitana	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convogli	convoglio	NOUN	S	nmod
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
passeggeri	passeggero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61-bis	61-bis	PROPN	SP	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	obl
aggravante	aggravante	VERB	V	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
transnazionale	transnazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	obj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	nsubj
criminale	criminale	ADJ	A	amod
organizzato	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
impegnato	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
criminali	criminale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	PRON	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis.1	416-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nummod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attenuano	Attenuano	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	advcl
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	PD	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reagito	reagire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ira	ira	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
suggestione	suggestione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
folla	folla	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tumulto	tumulto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riunioni	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assembramenti	assembramento	NOUN	S	conj
vietati	vietare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
offendono	offendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	advcl
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5°	5°	NOUN	NO	ROOT

l'	il	DET	RD	det
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doloso	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6°	6°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riparato	riparare	VERB	V	acl
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
essersi	essere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adoperato	adoperare	VERB	V	advcl
spontaneamente	spontaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
elidere	elidere	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuare	attenuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(;	(;	PUNCT	S	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
comportamentali	comportamentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62-bis	62-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	ROOT
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
generiche	generico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
giustificare	giustificare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	Esse	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
concorrere	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	ADJ	S	obl
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
229	229	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
puo	puo	ADP	E	case
`	`	AUX	S	nmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
posta	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
applicherebbe	applichere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concorresse	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
aumentare	aumentare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuire	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
anzidetta	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
370	370	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	parataxis
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aumentarla	aumentare la	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
diminuirla	diminuire la	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-bis	133-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	dep
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	nmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuanto	ADJ	A	conj
importano	importare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
prime	prima	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	amod
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	xcomp
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	ccomp
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concorresse	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
112	112	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevalenza	prevalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritenute	ritenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	compound
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisca	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
determini	determinare	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	DD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
242a	242a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
265	265	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
280	280	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
333	333	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
338	338	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
344	344	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
369	369	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
1974	1974	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	DET	NO	case
l.	L.	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1974	1974	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
69-bis	69-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
112	112	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	appos
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	parataxis
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fratello	fratello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sorella	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	appos
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggettive	soggettivo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concerne	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offeso	offeso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggettive	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
intensità	intensità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offeso	offeso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
imputabilità	imputabilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporanee	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
importa	importare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	obl
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	obl
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolano	ergastolano	NOUN	S	nsubj
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	obl
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl
pene	pena	NOUN	V	xcomp
temporanee	temporaneo	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
eguale	eguale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dovrebbero	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggersi	infliggere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
importano	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
pene	pena	NOUN	V	xcomp
temporanee	temporaneo	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det
distintamente	distintamente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ultima	ultima	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
importano	importare	VERB	V	conj
pene	pena	NOUN	S	xcomp
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det
distintamente	distintamente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	dep
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detratta	detratta	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisca	stabilisca	VERB	V	ROOT
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	compound
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	DET	DI	det
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
75	75	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
egualmente	egualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	mark
pene	pena	NOUN	S	xcomp
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	expl
fosse	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dovrebbero	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
pene	pena	NOUN	V	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quintuplo	quintuplo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
centoventicinque	centoventicinquo	ADJ	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
vale	valere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-bis	133-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
169a	169a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
detratta	detrattare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
169a	169a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

28	28	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
vale	valere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-bis	133-bis	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

28	28	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	flat:name
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogata	prorogare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	NO	dep
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
inflitte	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
giudicare	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
posteriormente	posteriormente	ADV	B	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
più	più	DET	DI	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	PROPN	SP	appos
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Reato	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
continuato	continuato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggersi	infliggere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
aumentata	aumentato	VERB	V	acl
sino	sino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
triplo	triplo	ADJ	A	obl
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
viola	violare	VERB	V	conj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esecutive	esecutivo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
criminoso	criminoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermi	Fermi	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
recidiva	recidivo	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offesa	Offesa	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionata	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	VA	cop
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
avesse	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
voleva	volere	AUX	VM	aux
offendere	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	VA	cop
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Evento	evento	NOUN	S	appos
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluto	volere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
voluto	volere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reato	reato	NOUN	S	appos
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
considera	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituirebbero	costituirebbero	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reato	reato	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferisca	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
superati	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massimi	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
79	79	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
QUARTO	QUARTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEL	DEL	ADP	E_RD	case
REO	REO	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	case
PERSONA	PERSONA	PROPN	SP	conj
OFFESA	OFFESA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
REATO	REATO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	nsubj:pass

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputabilita	imputabilito	ADJ	A	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	dep
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj
mette	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fargli	fargli	NOUN	S	nmod
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	xcomp
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	appos
preordinato	preordinato	NOUN	S	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
messo	mettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prepararsi	preparare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scusa	scusa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vizio	Vizio	PROPN	S	appos
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
escludere	escludere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vizio	Vizio	PROPN	SP	appos
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PROPN	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
scemare	scemare	VERB	V	acl
grandemente	grandemente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
escluderla	escludere la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
emotivi	emotivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
passionali	passionale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stati	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
emotivi	emotivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
passionali	passionale	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuiscono	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputabilità	imputabilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ubriachezza	Ubriachezza	PROPN	SP	appos
derivata	derivare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
derivata	derivare	VERB	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
tale	tale	DET	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
scemare	scemare	VERB	V	acl
grandemente	grandemente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
escluderla	escludere la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ubriachezza	Ubriachezza	PROPN	SP	appos
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
preordinata	preordinato	NOUN	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derivata	derivare	VERB	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuisce	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
imputabilità	imputabilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
preordinata	preordinare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prepararsi	preparare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scusa	scusa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fatto	fatto	NOUN	SP	appos
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ubriachezza	Ubriachezza	PROPN	SP	appos
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
ubriaco	ubriaco	ADJ	A	xcomp
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dedito	dedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcooliche	alcoolico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
frequente	frequente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravamento	aggravamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dedito	dedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cronica	Cronica	ADJ	A	amod
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	appos
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cronica	cronico	ADJ	A	amod
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
89	89	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sordomutismo	Sordomutismo	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
grandemente	grandemente	ADJ	A	amod
scemata	scemato	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusa	escludere	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	parataxis
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
97	97	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minore	Minore	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minore	Minore	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diciotto	diciotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
aveva	avere	VERB	V	advcl
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
pene	pena	NOUN	S	ccomp
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
maritale	maritale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidiva	recidiva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Recidiva	Recidiva	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrano	concorrare	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
recidivo	recidivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
261	261	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cumulo	cumulo	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reati	Reati	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
violano	violano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pure	pure	ADV	B	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
determinarono	determinarono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
concreti	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	appos
presunta	presuntare	VERB	V	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computa	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scontato	scontare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	appos
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	parataxis
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dedito	dedire	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	appos
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	xcomp
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dedito	dedire	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Professionalità	Professionalità	NOUN	S	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovandosi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	acl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
viva	vivere	VERB	V	ccomp
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	SP	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidiva	recidivo	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
vari	vario	ADJ	DI	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
vari	vario	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tendenza	Tendenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	obl
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sebbene	sebbene	CCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
recidivo	recidivo	ADJ	A	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dodicesimo	dodicesimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riveli	riveli	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
inclinazione	inclinazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
indole	indole	NOUN	S	obl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
malvagia	malvagia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
inclinazione	inclinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
originata	originare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
preveduta	prevedure	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
89	89	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
109	109	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estinguono	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	pena	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
commesso	commesso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentato	VERB	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	ROOT
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod

la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi.(128	terzi.(128	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aumentata	aumentato	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorse	concordere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
promosso	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzato	organizzato	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorse	concordere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	compound
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	conj
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	parataxis
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
previsto	prevedere	NOUN	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
aggravamenti	aggravamente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADP	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2°	2°	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3°	3°	ADP	NO	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipi	partecipo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	csubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cooperazione	Cooperazione	PROPN	SP	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cooperare	cooperare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3°	3°	PUNCT	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nsubj
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorse	concordere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
113	113	NUM	N	conj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
diminuire	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cooperare	cooperare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4°	4°	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
accordino	accordare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trattato	trattare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istigatore	istigatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reato	reato	NOUN	S	appos
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
commesso	commettere	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
voluto	volere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
volle	volle	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mutamento	mutamento	PROPN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offeso	offeso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muta	mutare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
concorsi	concorso	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuire	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aggravano	aggravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuiscono	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intensità	intensità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	ADV	S	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggettive	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux
concorsi	concorso	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
concorsi	concorso	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedersi	procedere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dietro	dietro	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interdetti	interdetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
inabilitati	inabilitato	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
vece	vece	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercitarlo	esercitare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inabilitato	inabilitato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	PRON	PD	nmod
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
minore	minore	ADJ	A	advcl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferma	infermare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
v'	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	det
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Querela	querela	PRON	PD	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
offesi	offese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	det
soltanto	soltanto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
123	123	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termine	Termine	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	PD	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	PD	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	ccomp
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tacita	tacire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	ROOT
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
querela	querela	ADV	B	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
querelarsi	querelare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Querela	querela	PRON	PD	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inabilitato	inabilitare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	CS	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
priva	privo	ADJ	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inabilitato	inabilitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
126	126	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	ROOT
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termine	Termine	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Irrevocabilità	irrevocabilità	PROPN	S	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
123	123	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istanza	Istanza	PROPN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolata	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reato	reato	NOUN	S	appos
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
QUINTO	QUINTO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
DELLA	DELLA	ADP	E_RD	case
NON	NON	ADV	BN	advmod
PUNIBILITÀ	PUNIBILITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
PER	PER	PROPN	SP	case
PARTICOLARE	PARTICOLARE	PROPN	SP	fixed
TENUITÀ	TENUITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	case
FATTO	FATTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

DELLA	DELLA	ADP	E_RD	case
MODIFICAZIONE	MODIFICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ED	ED	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ESECUZIONE	ESECUZIONE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DELLA	DELLA	ADP	E_RD	case
PENA	PENA	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	ADJ	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
131-bis	131-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
pena	pena	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esiguità	esiguità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
susseguente	susseguere	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
abietti	abietto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
futili	futile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
crudeltà	crudeltà	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adoperato	adoperare	VERB	V	conj
sevizie	sevizia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
profittato	profittare	VERB	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minorata	minorato	NOUN	S	nmod
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
derivate	derivare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
volute	voluto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
gravissime	gravissimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	ROOT
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
337	337	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
341-bis	341-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
343	343	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
423	423	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
558-bis	558-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
582	582	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
576	576	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
577	577	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
583	583	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
583-bis	583-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
593-ter	593-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-undecies	609-undecies	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612-	612-	PROPN	SP	conj
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612-ter	612-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
613-bis	613-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
628	628	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
629	629	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
644	644	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-bis	648-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-ter	648-ter	NUM	N	appos
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
185	185	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	DET	B	advmod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
isolatamente	isolatamente	ADV	B	advmod
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
condotte	condotto	ADJ	A	amod
plurime	plurimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reiterate	reiterata	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilanciamento	bilanciamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
306	306	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Potere	potere	NOUN	S	appos
discrezionale	discrezionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
discrezionalmente	discrezionalmente	ADJ	B	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
giustificano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
discrezionale	discrezionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
oltrepassare	oltrepassare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gravità	Gravità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
discrezionale	discrezionale	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tener	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desunto	ADJ	V	parataxis
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	N	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
intensità	intensità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tener	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desuntare	VERB	V	parataxis
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NOUN	PD	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
penali	penale	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
antecedenti	antecedente	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
contemporanea	contemporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
susseguente	susseguente	ADJ	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
famigliare	famigliare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133-bis	133-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	appos
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aumentare	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuirle	diminuire lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inefficace	inefficace	ADJ	A	ccomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
eccessivamente	eccessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
gravosa	gravoso	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-ter	133-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pagamento	Pagamento	NOUN	S	appos
rateale	rateale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	PI	det
rata	rare	VERB	S	nsubj
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
trentamila	trentamila	VERB	N	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
estinguere	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Computo	computo	PROPN	SP	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanee	temporanee	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lira	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ragguaglio	ragguaglio	PROPN	SP	appos
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	discourse
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ragguaglio	ragguaglio	NOUN	S	obj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
calcolando	calcolare	VERB	V	advcl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eseguite	eseguire	ADJ	V	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	appos
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sofferta	sofferto	ADJ	V	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
detrae	detrae	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl:agent
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
detentiva	detentiva	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	conj
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
scontata	scontato	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
computata	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	obl
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Computo	computo	PROPN	SP	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tien	tien	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
sconta	scontare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
145	145	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	appos
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
prestato	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziari	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrispostare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
prestato	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prelevate	prelevare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	NO	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostiene	sostenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservata	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
peculio	peculio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
differita	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
affetta	affettare	VERB	V	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
AIDS	AIDS	PROPN	SP	obl
conclamata	conclamare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	obl
immunitaria	immunitario	ADJ	A	amod
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
286-bis	286-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
avanzata	avanzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terapie	terapia	NOUN	S	conj
curative	curativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
facoltativo	facoltativo	NOUN	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
esser	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	NUM	N	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donna	donna	NOUN	S	nmod
incinta	incinto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
decaduta	decadere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj
muoia	muoio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abbandonato	abbandonare	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
causano	causare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivare	VERB	A	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consentano	consentare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Infermità	Infermità	NOUN	S	appos
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
sopravvenuta	sopravvenire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopravviene	sopravviena	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obj
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invece	invece	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
inflittagli	inflittaglio	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delinquente	delinquente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
delinquente	delinquente	NOUN	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
sopravvenuta	sopravvenire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario.(5	giudiziario.(5	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
venute	venere	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
SESTO	SESTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	ADP	E_RD	case
ESTINZIONE	ESTINZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	case
REATO	REATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	case
PENA	PENA	PROPN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Amnistia	Amnistia	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	nummod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
stabilisca	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidivi	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	conj
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Remissione	Remissione	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estraprocessuale	estraprocessuale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
estraprocessuale	estraprocessuale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
espressa	espresso	VERB	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	ROOT
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
persistere	persistere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	ROOT
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	nmod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
comportamentali	comportamentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
rimessa	rimessa	VERB	V	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sopravvenute	sopravvenuta	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
90-quater	90-quater	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
munita	munire	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	amod
priva	privo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
153	153	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Incapaci	Incapaci	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interdetti	interdetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
inabilitati	inabilitato	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rimettere	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	ADJ	NO	obj
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentato	rappresentato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	advcl
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
raggiunge	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Più	Più	ADV	B	advmod
querelanti	querelante	ADJ	S	appos
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
querelanti	querelante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offese	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	PRON	PD	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelato	querelato	NOUN	S	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tacitamente	tacitamente	ADV	B	conj
ricusata	ricusato	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ricusa	ricusa	ADJ	A	ROOT
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelato	querelato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricusata	ricusare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
153	153	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelato	querelato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
infermo	infermo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prescrizione	Prescrizione	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	ROOT
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
edittale	edittale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
puniti	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
tener	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
qual	quale	DET	DQ	det:poss
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravante	aggravante	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alternativamente	alternativamente	ADV	B	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
detentiva	detentivo	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
raddoppiati	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
375	375	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
449	449	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
589	589	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
589-bis	589-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
raddoppiati	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
572	572	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
XII	XII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
contemplate	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinunciabile	rinunciabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
199)(208a	199)(208a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
254	254	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumazione	consumazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
tentato	tentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuato	continuare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
dipendere	dipendere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	B	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commesso	commesso	NOUN	S	nmod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
392	392	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diciottesimo	diciottesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
rimane	rimanere	VERB	A	ROOT
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
accoglie	accoglie	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
deferimento	deferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sessantesimo	sessantesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevedibile	prevedibile	ADJ	A	amod
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dovendosi	dovere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253a	253a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rogatorie	rogatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rogatoria	rogatoria	NOUN	S	obj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiesto	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rogatoria	rogatoria	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2021	2021	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
GENNAIO	GENNAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
GENNAIO	GENNAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2017	2017	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riprende	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2021	2021	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	flat:name
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420-quater	420-quater	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
rimane	rimanere	VERB	A	ROOT
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rintracciata	rintracciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
superato	superare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
199)(208a	199)(208a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
GENNAIO	GENNAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Interrompono	Interrompono	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	conj
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
delega	delega	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
abbreviato	abbreviato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
interrotta	interrotto	ADJ	A	amod
comincia	cominciare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	PRON	PI	advcl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
interruttivi	interruttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prolungati	prolungare	VERB	V	ROOT
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale.(199	penale.(199	NOUN	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
208a	208a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sta	stare	AUX	VA	aux
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
richiamati	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
640-bis	640-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
103	103	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
105.(199	105.(199	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
208a	208a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
161-bis	161-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronunzia	pronunzia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regressione	regressione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riprende	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunzia	pronunzia	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oblazione	Oblazione	NOUN	SP	appos
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terza	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
162-bis	162-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oblazione	Oblazione	NOUN	S	appos
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
punite	punito	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
alternative	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	ROOT
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
oblazione	oblazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
oblazione	oblazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
permangono	permangere	VERB	V	conj
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
eliminabili	eliminabile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
respingere	respingere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
oblazione	oblazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
162-ter	162-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotta	ADJ	S	nmod
riparatorie	riparatorio	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	det
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
estinto	estinto	ADJ	S	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riparato	riparare	VERB	V	advcl
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eliminato	eliminare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1208	1208	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formulata	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
riconosca	riconore	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
congruità	congruità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
addebitabile	addebitabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
rateale	rateale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imponendo	imponere	VERB	V	advcl
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
resta	restare	VERB	A	ROOT
sospeso	sospeso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotto	ADJ	S	nmod
riparatorie	riparatorio	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	nmod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
rimanga	rimangae	VERB	A	ccomp
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
per	per	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	V	ccomp
sospesa	sospeso	VERB	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
infligga	infliggare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	V	ccomp
sospesa	sospeso	VERB	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	advmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ventuno	ventuno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
settanta	settanta	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
infligga	infliggare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
privativa	privativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	V	ccomp
sospesa	sospeso	VERB	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riparato	riparare	VERB	V	conj
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
adoperato	adoperare	VERB	V	conj
spontaneamente	spontaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
elidere	elidere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuare	attenuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
eliminabili	eliminabile	VERB	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
ragguagliandola	ragguagliandolo	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	V	ccomp
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	PROPN	SP	appos
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
presume	presumere	VERB	V	obl:agent
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
asterrà	asterre	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delinquente	delinquente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ccomp
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inapplicabili	inapplicabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
infliggere	infliggere	VERB	V	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
infliggere	infliggere	NOUN	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cumulata	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	A	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superi	superare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obblighi	Obblighi	PROPN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	amod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sospesa	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
usufruito	usufruire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-quater	322-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	S	amod
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
tentata	tentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
572	572	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-ter	609-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-octies	609-octies	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
583-quinquies	583-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
576	576	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
577	577	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
bisettimanale	bisettimanale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
percorsi	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
occupano	occupare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
psicologica	psicologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
condannati	condannare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempestive	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	dep
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capo	capo	NOUN	S	appos
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adempiuti	adempiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
624-bis	624-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fisse	fissa	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferroviarie	ferroviario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aeroportuali	aeroportuale	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marittime	marittima	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
urbano	urbano	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
extraurbano	extraurbare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
pertinenze	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aree	area	NOUN	S	conj
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	B	amod
individuati	individuato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estenda	estendare	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionalmente	condizionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
per	per	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PE	fixed
sola	solo	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
posti	posto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privare	ADJ	A	conj
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
impostigli	impostigla	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salva	Salva	PROPN	A	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
commetta	commettare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempia	adempiare	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
impostigli	impostigli	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riporti	riportare	VERB	V	parataxis
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cumulata	cumulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
sospesa	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
supera	superare	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
riporti	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
commesso	commettere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cumulata	cumulare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
sospesa	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
revocare	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
ostative	ostativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
168-bis	168-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
edittale	edittale	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
edittale	edittale	ADJ	A	amod
detentiva	detentivo	NOUN	S	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alternativa	alternativo	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
550	550	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotto	ADJ	S	nmod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
cagionato	cagionato	VERB	V	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Comporta	Comporta	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
implicare	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
movimento	movimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
determinati	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
retribuita	retribuitare	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	acl
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attitudini	attitudine	NOUN	S	conj
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
continuativi	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
volontariato	volontariato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudichino	pregiudichare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
giornaliera	giornaliero	ADJ	V	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
103	103	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
104	104	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
105	105	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
108	108	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
168-ter	168-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nsubj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
accessorie	accessoria	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
168-quater	168-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reiterata	reiterato	ADJ	A	conj
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
imposte	imposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Perdono	perdono	VERB	V	parataxis
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
congiunta	congiuntare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presume	presumere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
asterrà	asterre	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	A	obl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	PC	obj
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduto	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presupposto	presupposto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
estintiva	estintivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	advmod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravamento	aggravamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitte	inflitre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidivi	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	conj
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estinguono	estinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
raddoppiato	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidivi	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	conj
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
174	174	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indulto	Indulto	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
indulto	indulto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
condona	Condona	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	appos
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
commuta	commuta	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	nummod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indulto	indulto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
cumulate	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indulto	indulto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spedito	spedire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
elettorale	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	PC	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ragguagliata	ragguagliare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cumulata	cumulato	ADJ	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
priverebbe	privare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	la	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Liberazione	Liberazione	NOUN	S	appos
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	ccomp
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scontato	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
metà	metà	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
inflittagli	inflittagli	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimanente	rimanente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superi	superare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidivo	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scontato	scontare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
quarti	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
inflittagli	inflittagli	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
scontato	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
ventisei	ventisei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trovarsi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempierle	adempiere le	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
sospesa	sospeso	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
liberata	liberato	ADJ	A	amod
commette	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasgredisce	trasgredire	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riammesso	riammesso	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
153	153	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decorso	decorso	VERB	V	obl
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
rimane	rimanere	VERB	A	ROOT
estinta	estinta	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riabilitazione	Riabilitazione	NOUN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizioni	Condizioni	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siasi	siasi	VERB	V_PC	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
estinta	estinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	conj
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costanti	costante	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidivi	recidivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoversi	capovere si	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	obl
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadere	scadere	VERB	V	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adempiuto	adempiere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dimostri	dimostro	VERB	PI	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trovarsi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempierle	adempiere le	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
perpetue	perpetua	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
estinta	estinta	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costanti	costante	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
riabilitata	riabilitare	ADJ	V	amod
commette	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riabilitazione	Riabilitazione	NOUN	S	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
182	182	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
estintive	estintivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
operano	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
intervengono	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevale	prevale	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
intervengono	intervengere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
fanno	fare	VERB	V	conj
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
estinti	estinte	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
intervengono	intervengere	VERB	V	ROOT
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
estinti	estinte	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indulto	indulto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
estinta	estinto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
concorrente	concorrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	advcl
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
concorrente	concorrente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinta	estingere	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
estintive	estintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
concorrente	concorrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diurno	diurno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Restituzioni	Restituzioni	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbliga	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
riparare	riparare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indivisibilità	Indivisibilità	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ex	ex	ADJ	A	amod
delicto	delicto	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
indivisibile	indivisibile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
188	188	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spese	spesa	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rimborsare	rimborsare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
futuri	futuro	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
civilmente	civilmentire	ADJ	V	advcl
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ipoteca	Ipoteca	NOUN	S	appos
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADV	S	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alimenti	alimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5°	5°	NOUN	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6°	6°	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
anticipate	anticipare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
onorario	onorario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nsubj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	ADJ	V	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
temere	temere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
manchino	manchino	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
disperdano	disperdare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	advcl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
privilegiati	privilegiare	VERB	V	xcomp
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
privilegiato	privilegiare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
sorti	sorgere	VERB	V	acl
posteriormente	posteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
privilegi	privilegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Garanzie	Garanzie	PROPN	SP	nsubj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
civilmente	civilmentire	VERB	V	ROOT
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
civilmente	civilmentire	VERB	V	amod
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
2°	2°	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4°	4°	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5°	5°	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrano	concorrare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
civilmente	civilmentire	ADJ	V	advcl
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
191	191	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
garantiti	garantire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecati	ipotecato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobili	mobile	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devolute	devolere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cassa	Cassa	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alimenti	alimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	NO	ROOT

le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danneggiato	danneggiato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
anticipate	anticipare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
onorario	onorario	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5°	5°	NOUN	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cassa	Cassa	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presumibilmente	presumibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6°	6°	ADJ	N	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
192	192	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinario	ordinario	NOUN	S	nmod
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presumono	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
fatti	fare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	conj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficaci	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provi	provare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
furono	essere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinario	ordinario	NOUN	S	nmod
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commesso	commesso	ADJ	S	obl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolati	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obbligazione	Obbligazione	NOUN	SP	appos
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
multe	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
inflitte	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
rivestita	rivestire	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
insolvibilità	insolvibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
inflitta	inflitto	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
penalmente	penalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
preposta	preposta	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
insolvibile	insolvibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	appos
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multe	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccettuati	eccettuare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	cop
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
rivestita	rivestire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
insolvibilità	insolvibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adempiuta	adempiere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
OTTAVO	OTTAVO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLE	DELLE	ADP	E_RD	case
MISURE	MISURE	PROPN	SP	nmod
AMMINISTRATIVE	AMMINISTRATIVE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
SICUREZZA	SICUREZZA	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
199	199	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottoposizione	Sottoposizione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
preveduti	prevedere	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolate	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Misure	Misure	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
rinnova	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3°	3°	PUNCT	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pericolosità	Pericolosità	PROPN	SP	appos
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
probabile	probabile	ADJ	A	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
commetta	commettare	VERB	V	ccomp
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
desume	desumere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
204	204	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimento	Provvedimento	PROPN	SP	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	parataxis
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	SP	appos
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporsi	dispore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermo	infermo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubriaco	ubriaco	ADJ	A	amod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
dedita	deditare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cronica	cronico	ADJ	A	amod
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
ricoverati	ricoverare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computato	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sottoposte	sottoposta	ADJ	S	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cessato	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza.(61	sicurezza.(61	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riesame	Riesame	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decorso	decorso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
riprende	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessato	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Persona	Persona	PROPN	SP	appos
giudicata	giudicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	advmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
presunto	presumere	VERB	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siasi	siasi	VERB	V_PC	acl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccetto	eccetto	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	Qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indulto	indulto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilare	VERB	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
211	211	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunte	aggiungere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
estinta	estingere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiunte	aggiunta	NOUN	S	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanee	temporanee	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiunte	aggiunta	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
211-bis	211-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
147	147	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
consumato	consumato	ADJ	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	VA	conj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	conj
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
commetta	commingere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patologia	patologia	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
212	212	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
scontare	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprende	riprendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colpita	colpire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	obj
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
crede	credere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoporla	sottopore la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nsubj
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
colpisce	colpire	VERB	V	advcl
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermo	infermo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cessata	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentiva	detentire	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Stabilimenti	Stabilimenti	PROPN	SP	appos
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curativo	curativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
donne	donna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnate	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
separati	separare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomini	uomo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
curativo	curativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tendenze	tendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitudini	abitudine	NOUN	S	conj
criminose	criminoso	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
remunerato	remunerare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
remunerazione	remunerazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
prelevata	prelevare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricoverati	ricoverato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
manicomi	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedalità	spedalità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	Inosservanza	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricomincia	ricominciare	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ricoverata	ricoverare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Specie	Specie	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
distinguono	distinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
detentive	detentivo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	PD	conj
il	il	DET	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT

il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
misure	misura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	NO	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
Comuni	comune	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
Provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
osterie	osteria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
spacci	spaccio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcooliche	alcoolico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
indicarne	indicare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
applichi	applicare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trattandosi	trattare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	csubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
216	216	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	xcomp
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	N	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	xcomp
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
sottoposti	sottoposto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commettono	commettere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
manifestazione	manifestazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condannate	condannato	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prosciolte	prosciogliere	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
217	217	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	appos
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	ROOT
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
218	218	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
colonie	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
case	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
delinquenti	delinquente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attitudini	attitudine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
219	219	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cronica	cronico	ADJ	A	amod
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
cagione	cagione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sordomutismo	sordomutismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione.(99	reclusione.(99	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5)(99	5)(99	NUM	N	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ccomp
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	obl
cronica	cronico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scontata	scontare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
estinta	estingere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	PRON	PC	iobj
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	VA	aux
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	VERB	V	conj
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
venute	venere	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
determinarono	determinarere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dimesso	dimettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ubriachi	Ubriachi	PROPN	SP	appos
abituali	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
dediti	dedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverati	ricoverare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	PRON	PC	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricovero	Ricovero	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	conj
cronica	cronico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcool	alcool	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
sordomutismo	sordomutismo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricoverata	ricoverare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
scontare	scontare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	DQ	fixed
perduri	perduro	VERB	A	obl
il	il	DET	RD	obj
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	parataxis
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
manicomio	manicomio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prosciolti	prosciogliere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovandosi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricovero	Ricovero	VERB	S	appos
dei	di	DET	DI	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	csubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicata	applicare	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
ventuno	ventuno	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minore	Minore	PROPN	SP	appos
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
specialmente	specialmente	ADV	B	advmod
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
morali	morale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vissuto	vivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	parataxis
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
posto	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51	51	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diciotto	diciotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minore	Minore	NOUN	A	appos
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricoverato	ricoverare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
posto	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imputabilità	imputabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minore	Minore	PROPN	A	appos
delinquente	delinquente	NOUN	B	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	advmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delinquente	delinquente	ADV	B	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
ventuno	ventuno	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
227	227	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riformatori	Riformatori	PROPN	SP	appos
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	csubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
socialmente	socialmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rivelato	rivelare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
228	228	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Libertà	Libertà	NOUN	S	appos
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposte	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
occasioni	occasione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitate	limitato	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riadattamento	riadattamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvedano	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
229	229	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NOUN	PD	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
manifestazione	manifestazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	VERB	V	xcomp
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
dimettere	dimettere	VERB	V	acl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
obbligarla	obbligare la	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
imposti	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
trasgredisce	trasgredire	VERB	S	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
imposti	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aggiungere	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Avuto	Avuto	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripetersi	ripetere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presti	prestare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilare	ADJ	A	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
232	232	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Minori	minore	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infermi	infermo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	menta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
affidarla	affidare lo	VERB	V_PC	csubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ravvedimento	ravvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
pericolosa	pericoloso	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
riformatorio	riformatorio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
Comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
Provincie	Provincie	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occasionato	occasionare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
morali	morale	ADJ	A	conj
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soggiornare	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
Comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
Provincie	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designati	designare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggiorno	soggiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricomincia	ricominciare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
234	234	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
osterie	osteria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
spacci	spaccio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcooliche	alcoolico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
frequentare	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
osterie	osteria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
spacci	spaccio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcooliche	alcoolico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
minima	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
aggiunto	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condannati	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
235	235	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Espulsione	Espulsione	PROPN	SP	appos
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
236	236	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
regole	regola	NOUN	S	ROOT
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	NO	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
199	199	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
200	200	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
201	201	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
205	205	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3°	3°	PUNCT	NO	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
203	203	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
204	204	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
237	237	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Cassa	Cassa	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
fideiussione	fideiussione	NOUN	S	conj
solidale	solidale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
vigilata	vigilato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
239	239	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Adempimento	Adempimento	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcun	DET	DI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fideiussione	fideiussione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
devoluta	devoluta	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Cassa	Cassa	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematici	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
615-ter	615-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
615-quater	615-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
615-quinquies	615-quinquies	NOUN	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-bis	617-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-ter	617-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-quater	617-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-quinquies	617-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-sexies	617-sexies	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-bis	635-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-ter	635-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quater	635-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quinquies	635-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
640	640	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
640-ter	640-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
640-quinquies	640-quinquies	NOUN	N	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2°	2°	NUM	NO	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
240-bis	240-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316	316	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-bis	316-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-ter	316-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
453	453	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
454	454	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
455	455	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
460	460	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
461	461	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
517-ter	517-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
517-quater	517-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
518-quater	518-quater	PROPN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
518-quinquies	518-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
518-sexies	518-sexies	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
518-septies	518-septies	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-ter	452-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quater	452-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-sexies	452-sexies	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-octies	452-octies	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quaterdecies	452-quaterdecies	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
493-ter	493-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
512-bis	512-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
pornografico	pornografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
603-bis	603-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
629	629	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
640	640	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
pretesto	pretesto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
esonerare	esonerare	VERB	V	ccomp
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
640-bis	640-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
644	644	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648	648	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-bis	648-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-ter	648-ter	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
648-ter.1	648-ter.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2635	2635	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
giustificare	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
sproporzionato	sproporzionare	ADJ	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
giustificare	giustificare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
acquistarli	acquistare li	VERB	V_PC	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
provento	provento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reimpiego	reimpiegare	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estinta	estinta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
617-quinquies	617-quinquies	NOUN	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-sexies	617-sexies	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-bis	635-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-ter	635-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quater	635-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quinquies	635-quinquies	VERB	N	compound
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
descritte	descrivere	VERB	V	amod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

LIBRO	LIBRO	NOUN	S	ROOT
SECONDO	SECONDO	ADJ	NO	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
IN	IN	ADP	E	case
PARTICOLARE	PARTICOLARE	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PRIMO	PRIMO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
PERSONALITÀ	PERSONALITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLO	DELLO	PROPN	SP	dep
STATO	STATO	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentati	Attentati	PROPN	SP	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
violenti	violento	ADJ	A	amod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
menomare	menomare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indipendenza	indipendenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggravata	aggravare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
242	242	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cittadino	Cittadino	PROPN	SP	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
porta	portare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
porta	portare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presta	prestare	VERB	V	conj
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comando	comando	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
direttiva	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovandosi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ostilità	ostilità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nemico	nemico	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costretto	costringere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
impostogli	impostoglio	VERB	V_PC	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
Stati	eSsere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aggregati	aggregato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sebbene	sebbene	CCONJ	CC	mark
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
Stati	Stati	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
belligeranti	belligeranto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
243	243	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intelligenze	Intelligenze	PROPN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	parataxis
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
estero	estero	NOUN	S	amod
muova	muovere	VERB	V	advcl
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compia	compiare	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ostilità	ostilità	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nsubj
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
ostilità	ostilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	SP	nmod
ostili	ostile	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
espongono	espongere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
arruolamenti	arruolamente	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
ostili	ostile	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	essere	AUX	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ostili	ostile	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
tali	tale	PRON	PD	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	mark
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresaglie	rappresaglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorsioni	ritorsione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rottura	rottura	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
rappresaglie	rappresaglia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ritorsioni	ritorsione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
245	245	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intelligenze	Intelligenze	PROPN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impegnare	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
neutralità	neutralità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	parataxis
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impegnare	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	conj
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
impegnare	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
neutralità	neutralità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	obj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
246	246	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	ccomp
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
contrari	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aumentata	aumentato	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dati	dare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promessi	promessi	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Favoreggiamento	Favoreggiamento	PROPN	S	appos
bellico	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	parataxis
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
nuocere	nuocere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
raggiunge	raggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intento	intento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
248	248	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Somministrazione	somministrazione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvigioni	provvigione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
somministra	somministra	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	amod
nemico	nemico	ADJ	S	compound
provvigioni	provvigione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usate	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
249	249	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestiti	prestito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestiti	prestito	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	appos
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
dimorante	dimorante	ADV	B	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
248	248	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commercia	commerciare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sudditi	suddito	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
dimoranti	dimorante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
dimoranti	dimorare	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quintuplo	quintuplo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inadempimento	Inadempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	compound
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
bisogni	bisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
subfornitori	subfornitore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mediatori	mediatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
violando	violare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
252	252	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quintuplo	quintuplo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
ventimila	ventimila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sabotaggio	sabotaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
navi	nave	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convogli	convoglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strade	strada	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adibite	adibire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
254	254	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agevolazione	Agevolazione	NOUN	SP	appos
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
agevolata	agevolato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aveva	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
255	255	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
falsificazione	falsificazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
falsifica	falsifico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
carpisce	carpire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottrae	sottrae	PROPN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrae	distrae	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interno	interno	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procacciamento	procacciamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	parataxis
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interno	interno	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segrete	segreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segrete	segrere	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interno	interno	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
257	257	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	SP	appos
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interno	interno	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segrete	segreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spionaggio	Spionaggio	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
259	259	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agevolazione	Agevolazione	NOUN	SP	appos
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
255	255	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
256	256	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
257	257	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
258	258	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
agevolata	agevolato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compromesse	compromerre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
agevolata	agevolare	VERB	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
aveva	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Introduzione	Introduzione	NOUN	S	appos
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
ingiustificato	ingiustificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
clandestinamente	clandestinamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
zone	zona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colto	cogliere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
zone	zona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimità	prossimità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
257	257	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
258	258	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colto	cogliere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
reparto	reparto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
261	261	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	ROOT
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
segreto	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ottiene	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorra	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
262	262	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spionaggio	spionaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
militare	militare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ottiene	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorra	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impiega	impiegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	AP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
profitto	profitto	ADJ	A	amod
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	conj
scientifiche	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
applicazioni	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
conosca	conore	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
segrete	segrere	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
efficienza	efficienza	NOUN	S	conj
bellica	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
264	264	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Infedeltà	Infedeltà	PROPN	SP	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trattare	trattare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	ADJ	A	obl
affari	affare	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rende	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
infedele	infedele	VERB	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
265	265	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disfattismo	disfattismo	NOUN	S	appos
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diffonde	diffondere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
voci	voce	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esagerate	esagerare	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tendenziose	tendenzioso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
destare	destare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
allarme	allarme	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deprimere	deprimere	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spirito	spirito	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
menomare	menomare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
tale	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	acl
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	Istigazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disobbedire	disobbedire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
istiga	istigare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
militari	militare	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disobbedire	disobbedire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
violare	violare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
dato	dato	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apologia	apologia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
contrari	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	xcomp
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	NOUN	S	ROOT

in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	ROOT
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervenuti	intervenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disfattismo	disfattismo	NOUN	S	appos
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	parataxis
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deprimere	deprimere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cambi	cambo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fronte	fronte	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
trentamila	trentamila	VERB	N	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
intelligenze	intelligenza	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
nemico	nemico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Parificazione	parificazione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
alleati	alleato	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
alleato	alleato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associato	associare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Associazioni	Associazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
sovversive	sovversivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obj
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sovvertire	sovvertire	VERB	V	acl
violentemente	violentemente	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamenti	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sopprimere	sopprimere	VERB	V	conj
violentemente	violentemente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricostituiscono	ricostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
simulata	simulato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Associazioni	associazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanzia	finanziare	VERB	V	conj
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolti	rivolgere	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	VERB	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
270-bis.1	270-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	advcl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravante	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	DD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dissociandosi	dissociare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	conj
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
decisive	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravante	aggravante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
determinanti	determinare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
esatta	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-ter	270-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	SP	appos
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
rifugio	rifugio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ospitalità	ospitalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
continuativamente	continuativamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-quater	270-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Arruolamento	arruolamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arruola	arruolare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	PRON	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sabotaggio	sabotaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
rivolti	rivoltare	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
arruolata	arruolato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
270-quater.1	270-quater.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
270-quater	270-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanzia	finanzia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	conj
viaggi	viaggio	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-quinquies	270-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addestra	addestra	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
chimiche	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
batteriologiche	batteriologico	ADJ	A	conj
nocive	nocivo	ADJ	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sabotaggio	sabotaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
rivolti	rivoltare	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
addestrata	addestrato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
avendo	avere	VERB	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
univocamente	univocamente	ADV	B	amod
finalizzati	finalizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
addestra	addestrare	VERB	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istruisce	istruire	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
270-quinquies.1	270-quinquies.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
270-quater.1	270-quater.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
raccoglie	raccoglia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eroga	erogare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citate	citata	NOUN	S	nmod
condotte	condotto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PI	nsubj
deposita	depositere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodisce	custodire	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-quinquies.2	270-quinquies.2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperde	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-quinquies.3	270-quinquies.3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
270-quinquies	270-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consapevolmente	consapevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	nmod
bellici	bellico	NOUN	A	amod
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
chimiche	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
batteriologiche	batteriologico	ADJ	A	conj
nocive	nocivo	ADJ	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sabotaggio	sabotaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
rivolti	rivoltare	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condotte	condotte	PROPN	SP	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
arrecare	arrecare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
intimidire	intimidire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costringere	costringere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destabilizzare	destabilizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruggere	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
politiche	politico	ADJ	A	amod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condotte	condotto	NOUN	S	conj
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
terroristiche	terroristico	NOUN	SP	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
vincolanti	vincolante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-septies	270-septies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	A	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotto	prodotto	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Associazioni	associazione	NOUN	SP	appos
antinazionali	antinazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propongano	propongare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgano	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
distruggere	distruggere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deprimere	deprimere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
sentimento	sentimento	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
272	272	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Illecita	Illecita	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuta	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reticenti	reticente	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Illecita	Illecita	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conceduta	concedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
interna	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	appos
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
attenta	attentare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96a	96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offesa	Offesa	NOUN	S	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attenta	attencere	VERB	V	parataxis
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offese	offese	NOUN	V	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onore	onore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestigio	prestigio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onore	onore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prestigio	prestigio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
280	280	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
terroristiche	terroristica	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
attenta	attentare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
venti	venti	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	obj
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolti	rivolgere	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giudiziarie	giudiziaria	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
penitenziarie	penitenziaria	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
92)(96a	92)(96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
280-bis	280-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atto	atto	PROPN	SP	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordigni	ordigno	NOUN	S	nmod
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
compie	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	xcomp
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
assimilate	assimilato	ADJ	VA	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
585	585	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
causare	causare	VERB	V	xcomp
importanti	importante	ADJ	A	amod
danni	danno	NOUN	S	obj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Assemblee	assemblea	NOUN	S	conj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
280-ter	280-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procura	procurare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
radioattiva	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

crea	creare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordigno	ordigno	NOUN	S	obj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
viene	venire	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
venti	venti	NUM	N	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270-sexies	270-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizza	utilizzo	NOUN	S	amod
materia	materia	NOUN	S	compound
radioattiva	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordigno	ordigno	NOUN	S	conj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggia	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rilasci	rilascere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obj
radioattiva	radioattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
descritta	descritto	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggressivi	aggressivo	ADJ	A	conj
chimici	chimico	ADJ	A	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
batteriologici	batteriologice	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod

DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	ROOT

D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

LUOGOTENENZIALE	LUOGOTENENZIALE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1944	1944	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	conj
288	288	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
282	282	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	appos
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod

DAL	DAL	ADJ	NO	ROOT
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

LUOGOTENENZIALE	LUOGOTENENZIALE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1944	1944	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	conj
288	288	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
283	283	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	Attentato	PROPN	SP	appos
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
violenti	violento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mutare	mutare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Insurrezione	insurrezione	NOUN	S	appos
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
insurrezione	insurrezione	NOUN	S	obj
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insurrezione	insurrezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Coloro	Coloro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
insurrezione	insurrezione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
dirigono	dirigono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
insurrezione	insurrezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
armata	armare	VERB	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96a	96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Devastazione	Devastazione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strage	strage	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attentare	attentare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
portare	portare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
devastazione	devastazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
strage	strage	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5)(92	5)(92	NUM	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96a	96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	appos
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
suscitare	suscitare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96a	96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Usurpazione	Usurpazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
comando	comando	NOUN	S	conj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
usurpa	usurpa	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
persiste	persistere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercitarlo	esercitare lo	NOUN	S	obl
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alto	alto	ADJ	A	amod
comando	comando	NOUN	S	obj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
288	288	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Arruolamenti	Arruolamenti	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
armamenti	armamento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
arruola	arruolare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arma	arma	NOUN	S	conj
cittadini	cittadino	ADJ	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
militino	militino	NOUN	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arruolati	arruolato	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
militari	militare	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
tuttora	tuttora	ADV	B	advmod
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289	289	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	Attentato	NOUN	S	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
assemblee	assemblee	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
violenti	violento	ADJ	A	amod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	V	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prerogative	prerogativo	NOUN	S	conj
conferite	conferire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblee	assemblee	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblee	assemblee	NOUN	S	conj
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	Sequestro	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
democratico	democratico	ADJ	A	amod
sequestra	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrata	sequestrare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestrato	sequestrato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
concorrente	concorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dissociandosi	dissociare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
passivo	passivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
riacquisti	riacquistare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
passivo	passivo	ADJ	S	nsubj
muore	morire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289-ter	289-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	Sequestro	PROPN	SP	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coazione	coazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
630	630	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sequestra	sequestrare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obl
minacciando	minacciare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ucciderla	uccidere la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ferirla	ferire la	VERB	V_PC	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tenerla	tenere la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
sequestrata	sequestrare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
costringere	costringere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	V	cc
questi	questo	DET	PD	nsubj
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
governi	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
astenersene	astenere si ne	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinando	subordinira	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrata	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
605	605	NUM	N	nummod
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	vilipendio	PROPN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituzioni	Istituzioni	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	conj
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
vilipende	vilipendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
Assemblee	assemblea	NOUN	S	conj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
Costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
vilipende	vilipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obj
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
290-bis	290-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Parificazione	parificazione	NOUN	S	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	parataxis
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
277	277	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
278	278	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
279	279	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
289	289	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
parificato	parificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
vilipende	vilipendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	Vilipendio	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
vilipende	vilipendire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
ingiuriose	ingiurioso	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ricorrenza	ricorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cerimonia	cerimonia	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
intenzionalmente	intenzionalmente	ADV	B	conj
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
inservibile	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imbratta	imbrattare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	conj
portante	portante	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
colori	colore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
292-bis	292-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentati	Attentati	NOUN	S	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	conj
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
determina	determinare	VERB	V	conj
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitarlo	esercitare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
difforme	difforma	NOUN	S	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
Capi	Capi	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	Attentato	NOUN	S	appos
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Capi	Capi	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
attenta	attencere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo.(5)(92	ergastolo.(5)(92	PROPN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96a	96a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offesa	Offesa	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capi	capi	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attenta	attencere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	flat:name
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
298	298	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offesa	Offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PRON	SP	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
vilipende	vilipenda	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
ingiuriose	ingiurioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aprire	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esposto	esporre	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	appos
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizione	Condizione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
296	296	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
297	297	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
299	299	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
garantisca	garantisco	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reciprocamente	reciprocamente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	Capo	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bandiera	bandiera	NOUN	S	conj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
parità	parità	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
Capi	capi	PROPN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
missione	missione	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capi	Capi	PROPN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
298	298	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
concede	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capi	Capi	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
missione	missione	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dodicesimo	dodicesimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tredicesimo	tredicesimo	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onore	onore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
277	277	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
278	278	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
280	280	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
281	281	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282	282	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
295	295	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
296	296	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
297	297	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
298	298	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onore	onore	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicandosi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
dette	detta	NOUN	S	amod
offese	offesa	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	Istigazione	PROPN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
istiga	istigare	VERB	V	ROOT
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
accolta	accolto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	conj
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
303	303	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cospirazione	cospirazione	NOUN	S	appos
politica	politico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
accordano	accordare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
305	305	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cospirazione	cospirazione	NOUN	S	appos
politica	politico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
associano	associare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tende	tendere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
306	306	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Banda	Banda	NOUN	S	appos
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
forma	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
banda	banda	NOUN	S	obj
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	obl
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
sovventori	sovventore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	nmod
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	Assistenza	NOUN	S	appos
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipi	partecipa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cospirazione	cospirazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	conj
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
rifugio	rifugio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ospitalità	ospitalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
continuatamente	continuatamente	ADV	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sorelle	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
zii	zio	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
nipoti	nipote	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
comprendono	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affini	affino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
morto	morire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	conj
prole	prole	ADJ	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
308	308	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cospirazione	Cospirazione	PROPN	SP	appos
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
305	305	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
307	307	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
disciolgono	disciolgere	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
capi	capo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recedono	recedono	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Banda	Banda	NOUN	S	appos
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
306	306	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
307	307	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
banda	banda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
armata	armato	ADJ	A	amod
venne	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formata	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
disciolgono	disciolgere	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	PD	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
capi	capo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl
ritirano	ritirare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
banda	banda	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
arrendono	arrendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
opporre	opporre	VERB	V	advcl
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegnando	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbandonando	abbandonare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
banda	banda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formata	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tempo	Tempo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imminente	imminente	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
seguita	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	appos
diminuente	diminuente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lieve	Lieve	VERB	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comminate	comminato	VERB	V	acl
pei	pei	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuite	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
risulti	risulto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
312	312	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Espulsione	Espulsione	PROPN	SP	appos
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espulsione	espulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
313	313	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
245	245	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
265	265	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
267	267	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
269	269	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
273	273	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
274	274	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
277	277	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
278	278	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
279	279	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
287	287	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
288	288	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
248	248	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
249	249	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
250	250	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
251	251	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
252	252	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
alleato	alleato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associato	associare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Assemblea	assemblea	NOUN	S	obl
Costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
Assemblee	assemblea	NOUN	S	conj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Assemblea	Assemblea	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
297	297	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
298	298	NUM	N	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
297	297	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1a	1a	VERB	V	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Peculato	Peculato	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	ROOT
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
appropria	appropriare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agisto	agisgere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
momentaneo	momentaneo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
momentaneo	momentaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
restituita	restituire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
314-bis	314-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indebita	Indebita	VERB	V	acl
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
destina	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residuano	residuare	VERB	V	ROOT
margini	margine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discrezionalità	discrezionalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
intenzionalmente	intenzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
procura	Procura	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
315	315	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Peculato	Peculato	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
servzio	servzio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giovandosi	giovare si	VERB	V_PC	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
316-bis	316-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Malversazione	Malversazione	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estraneo	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sovvenzioni	sovvenzione	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mutui	mutui	PROPN	SP	conj
agevolati	agevolare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
denominate	denominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	advmod
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
destina	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
316-ter	316-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indebita	Indebita	VERB	V	ROOT
percezione	percezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
640-bis	640-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestanti	attestante	NOUN	S	conj
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vere	vero	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sovvenzioni	sovvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
finanziamenti	finanziamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mutui	mutui	PROPN	SP	appos
agevolati	agevolare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
denominate	denominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	A	advmod
percepita	percepito	ADJ	V	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
settecentoquarantacinquemila	settecentoquarantacinquemila	ADV	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
superare	superare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguito	conseguito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
317	317	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concussione	concussione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costringe	costringere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
317-bis	317-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	obl
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NOUN	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
perpetuo	perpetuo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inflitta	inflitta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attenuante	attenuante	ADV	B	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
323-bis	323-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attenuante	attenuante	ADV	B	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
323-bis	323-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indebitamente	indebitamente	NOUN	B	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardare	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardato	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipendi	stipendio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stipulazione	stipulazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interessata	interessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
319	319	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
penale	penale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingiusta	ingiusta	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingiusta	ingiusta	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Induzione	Induzione	PROPN	SP	ROOT
indebita	indebire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
induce	indurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	conj
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
incaricata	incaricare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
319	319	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
321	321	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
corruttore	corruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319-bis	319-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
322	322	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	conj
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ritardare	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	obj
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sollecita	sollecitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dazione	dazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sollecita	sollecitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dazione	dazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Peculato	Peculato	NOUN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indebita	indebire	VERB	V	acl
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concussione	concussione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
induzione	induzione	NOUN	S	conj
indebita	indebire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corti	Corti	PROPN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assemblee	assemblee	NOUN	S	conj
parlamentari	parlamentare	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
314-bis	314-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316	316	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
317	317	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
320	320	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
322	322	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	Corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Giustizia	Giustizia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
comandate	comandare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privare	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitino	esercitino	VERB	B	advmod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
corrispondenti	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
istituiscono	istituiscire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obj
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratori	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
comandate	comandare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
parte	parte	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	DQ	advmod
esercitino	esercitino	ADV	A	advmod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblee	assemblee	NOUN	S	nmod
parlamentari	parlamentare	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sovranazionale	sovranazionale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corti	corto	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quinquies	5-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promesso	promettere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilate	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
esercitino	esercitino	ADP	A	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
322-ter	322-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
321	321	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
date	dare	ADJ	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promesse	promere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
individua	individuare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	PR	fixed
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
322-ter.1	322-ter.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custodia	Custodia	NOUN	SP	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
322-ter	322-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	V_PC	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
322-quater	322-quater	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riparazione	Riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
322-bis	322-bis	PRON	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
lesa	lendere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
impregiudicato	impregiudicato	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
323	323	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
323-bis	323-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
314-bis	314-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316	316	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-bis	316-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316-ter	316-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
318	318	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	PROPN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322	322	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	advmod
adoperato	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
trasferite	trasferito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
323-ter	323-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Causa	Causa	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-ter	319-ter	NUM	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319-quater	319-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
320	320	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
321	321	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
induzione	induzione	NOUN	S	conj
indebita	indebire	VERB	V	acl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
353-bis	353-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
354	354	NUM	N	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	dep
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concrete	concreto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
percepita	percepire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concreti	concreto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
individuarne	individuare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obj
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
preordinata	preordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
denunciato	denunciato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
copertura	copertura	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	conj
conosciute	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impiega	impiegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invenzioni	invenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scoperte	scoperta	NOUN	S	conj
scientifiche	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
applicazioni	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
conosca	conore	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
segrete	segrete	ADV	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
326	326	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rivelazione	rivelazione	PROPN	SP	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	appos
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
violando	violare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segrete	segrete	ADV	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segrete	segrete	ADV	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
cagionare	cagionare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
327	327	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Omissione	Omissione	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	appos
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
uffico	uffico	ADJ	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
igiene	igiene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compie	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatta	redaggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rifiuto	rifiuto	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
obbedienza	obbedienza	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
militare	militare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
militare	militare	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
fattagli	fattagli	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercitando	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interrompe	interrompe	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzatori	organizzatore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
trentamila	trentamila	VERB	N	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
332	332	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
333	333	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
334	334	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
sessantamila	sessantamila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
seicentomila	seicentomila	NUM	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
seicentomila	seicentomilo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	Violazione	NOUN	SP	appos
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
seicentomila	seicentomilo	NUM	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335-bis	335-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
322-ter	322-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
usa	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costringerlo	costringere lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni.(119	anni.(119	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alunno	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	NO	amod
scolastico	scolastico	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
docente	docente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ausiliario	ausiliario	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costringere	costringere	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
337	337	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Resistenza	Resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
usa	usare	VERB	V	acl
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	mark
compie	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	mark
compie	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
337-bis	337-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Occultamento	Occultamento	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
occulti	occulre	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodisca	custodire	ADJ	A	conj
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
omologate	omologato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alterazioni	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
predisposizioni	predisposizione	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
tali	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
altera	alterare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mezzi	mezzi	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
operando	operare	VERB	V	advcl
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
predisposizioni	predisposizione	NOUN	S	conj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
tali	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	acl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
abilitante	abilitante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
legittima	legittimare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
338	338	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
usa	usare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	conj
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impedirne	impedire ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
turbarne	turbare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	acl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazioni	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiali	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
deliberazioni	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
339	339	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
travisata	travisato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
scritto	scritto	NOUN	S	conj
anonimo	anonimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
simbolico	simbolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valendosi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
intimidatrice	intimidatore	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
segrete	segreto	ADJ	A	amod
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esistenti	esistente	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
supposte	supposto	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
337	337	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
338	338	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
lancio	lancio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
contundenti	contundente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offendere	offendere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
artifici	artifico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pirotecnici	pirotecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
creare	creare	VERB	V	acl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
339-bis	339-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	ROOT
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
intimidatori	intimidatore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
ritorsiva	ritorsivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	Corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
610	610	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612	612	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
635	635	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
natura	natura	NOUN	V	obj
ritorsiva	ritorsivo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	Corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
340	340	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turba	turbare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzatori	organizzatore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
341	341	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
341-bis	341-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oltraggio	oltraggio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offende	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onore	onore	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prestigio	prestigio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	mark
compie	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alunno	alunno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	NO	amod
scolastico	scolastico	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
membro	membro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
docente	docente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provata	provare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ove	Ove	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riparato	riparare	VERB	V	advcl
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
sia	essere	VERB	V	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
342	342	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oltraggio	oltraggio	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onore	onore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prestigio	prestigio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	Corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	conj
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cospetto	cospetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpo	Corpo	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
commette	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
telegrafica	telegrafico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
scritto	scritto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpo	Corpo	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
343	343	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oltraggio	oltraggio	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
offende	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onore	onore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prestigio	prestigio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
343-bis	343-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
337	337	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
338	338	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
339	339	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
340	340	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
342	342	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
343	343	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	Corte	PROPN	SP	ROOT
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod

;	;	PUNCT	FC	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratori	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
comandate	comandare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
parte	parte	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	advmod
esercitino	esercitino	ADV	A	advmod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
corrispondenti	corrispondere	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addetti	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	Corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
344	344	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
345	345	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offesa	Offesa	NOUN	S	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affissioni	affissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
disprezzo	disprezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimuove	rimuove	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lacera	lacero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
illeggibili	illeggibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
affissi	affisso	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esposti	esposta	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
346-bis	346-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Traffico	Traffico	PROPN	SP	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
influenze	influenza	NOUN	S	nmod
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
319	319	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
319-ter	319-ter	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
intenzionalmente	intenzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	VM	acl:relcl
dare	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
remunerare	remunerare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	obj
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	obl
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obj
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	conj
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	acl:relcl
fa	fare	VERB	VM	advcl
dare	dare	VERB	V	csubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
riveste	riverre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziarie	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
remunerare	remunerare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Usurpazione	Usurpazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
usurpa	usurpare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	VA	aux
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
continua	continuare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitarle	esercitare le	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
abusivo	abusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
eserciti	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	nmod
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registro	registro	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
esercitata	esercitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
75.000	75.000	NUM	N	nummod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionista	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorse	concordere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
349	349	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
viola	violare	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
colui	colui	PRON	PD	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
tremila	tremila	NUM	V	compound
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trentamila	trentamila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agevolazione	Agevolazione	NOUN	SP	appos
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
agevolata	agevolato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	DET	DD	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
ottocentomila	ottocentomila	NUM	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
351	351	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
corpi	corpo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
custodita	custodire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impiegato	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presti	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
352	352	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
stampati	stampato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
vende	vendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affigge	affigge	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scritti	scritto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Turbata	Turbata	PROPN	SP	vocative
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incanti	incante	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
doni	done	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promesse	promessa	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collusioni	collusione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turba	turbare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
gara	gara	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incanti	incante	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
licitazioni	licitazione	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Amministrazioni	Amministrazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
allontana	allontanare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
preposta	preporre	VERB	V	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	SP	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incanti	incante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
licitazioni	licitazione	NOUN	S	conj
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licitazioni	licitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirette	dirette	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
353-bis	353-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Turbata	Turbata	PROPN	SP	ROOT
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
doni	done	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promesse	promessa	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collusioni	collusione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
turba	turbare	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bando	bare	VERB	V	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
equipollente	equipollente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
condizionare	condizionare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraente	contraente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.032	1.032	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	appos
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incanti	incante	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promesso	promettere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promessa	promesso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
astiene	astiene	VERB	V	parataxis
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrere	concorrere	VERB	V	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incanti	incante	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
licitazioni	licitazione	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
355	355	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inadempimento	Inadempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempiendo	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	compound
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	dep
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	A	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
telegrafiche	telegrafico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telefoniche	telefonico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	N	nummod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armamento	armamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equipaggiamento	equipaggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ovviare	ovviare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
subfornitori	subfornitore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mediatori	mediatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
violando	violare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
mancare	mancare	VERB	B	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
357	357	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nozione	Nozione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	compound
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
legislativa	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
autoritativi	autoritativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
caratterizzata	caratterizzare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
manifestazione	manifestazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
autoritativi	autoritativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificativi	certificativo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
358	358	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nozione	Nozione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
caratterizzata	caratterizzare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
tipici	tipico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
meramente	meramente	ADV	B	advmod
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
359	359	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Persone	Persone	NOUN	S	appos
esercenti	esercentare	ADJ	V	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	obj
forensi	forenso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	NO	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
privati	privato	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitando	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestando	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adempiono	adempiono	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
considera	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
esercitato	esercitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
TERZO	TERZO	ADJ	NO	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	amod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
L'	il	DET	RD	det
AMMINISTRAZIONE	AMMINISTRAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLA	DELLA	ADJ	E_RD	punct
GIUSTIZIA	GIUSTIZIA	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
361	361	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	nmod
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	appos
omette	ometto	ADJ	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
denunciare	denunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecento	trecento	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
doveva	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	appos
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
omette	ometto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
denunciare	denunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
terapeutiche	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
riabilitative	riabilitativo	ADJ	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tossicodipendenti	tossicodipendente	ADJ	A	amod
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
363	363	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	appos
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	flat:name
aggravata	aggravato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
omessa	omesso	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardata	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	conj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	appos
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
361	361	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
365	365	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
referto	referto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
pel	pel	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
361	361	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
referto	referto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esporrebbe	esporrebbe	VERB	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
assistita	assistire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
366	366	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
perito	perire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
custode	custode	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottiene	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecento	trecento	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimonio	testimonio	NOUN	S	obl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
367	367	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Simulazione	Simulazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
querela	querela	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
anonima	anonimo	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	parataxis
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
simula	simulare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
tracce	traccia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertarlo	accertare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
368	368	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Calunnia	Calunnia	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
denunzia	denunzia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
anonima	anonimo	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incolpa	incolpa	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
taluno	taluno	ADJ	PI	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
sa	sapere	VERB	V	advcl
innocente	innocente	ADJ	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
simula	simula	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
tracce	traccia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl
incolpa	incolpare	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
pel	pel	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
369	369	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Autocalunnia	Autocalunnia	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
scritto	scritto	NOUN	S	obl
anonimo	anonimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	conj
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incolpa	incolpa	NOUN	S	acl
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
sa	sapere	AUX	V	aux
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
370	370	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Simulazione	Simulazione	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
calunnia	calunnia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
simulazione	simulazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
calunnia	calunnia	NOUN	S	conj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falso	Falso	DET	SP	det:poss
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giura	giurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
deferito	deferito	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritratta	ritrattare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	NOUN	A	nsubj
prima	prima	ADV	NO	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	cop
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	advcl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
False	False	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tace	taco	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
sa	sapere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	appos
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	parataxis
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
definito	definire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedere.(144	procedere.(144	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
False	False	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	advcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendosi	essere si	VERB	A	amod
avvalso	avvalso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
resta	restare	VERB	S	ROOT
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
definito	definire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendosi	essere si	VERB	A	amod
avvalso	avvalso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
326	326	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
resta	resta	VERB	S	obl
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
negoziazione	negoziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
instaurato	instaurato	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalsa	avvalso	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2014	2014	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2014	2014	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
estinto	estinto	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
326	326	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
372	372	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsa	Falsa	PROPN	SP	appos
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deponendo	deponere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nega	negare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tace	taco	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sa	sapere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrogato	interrogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
373	373	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsa	Falsa	PROPN	SP	appos
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parere	parere	NOUN	S	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interpretazioni	interpretazione	NOUN	S	conj
mendaci	mendaco	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	aux
fatti	fare	VERB	V	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	ROOT
importa	importo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
374	374	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarre	trarre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immuta	immire	VERB	V	acl
artificiosamente	artificiosamente	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
374-bis	374-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
False	False	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
terapeutici	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
instaurare	instaurare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
375	375	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depistaggio	depistaggio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	xcomp
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviare	sviare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
immuta	immere	VERB	V	ccomp
artificiosamente	artificiosamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
connessi	connesso	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nega	negare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tace	taco	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
sa	sapere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artificiosa	artificioso	ADJ	A	amod
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
276	276	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
280	280	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
280-bis	280-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
304	304	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
305	305	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
306	306	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
422	422	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	obj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chimico	chimico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ripristinare	ripristinare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	conj
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depistaggio	depistaggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cessati	cessare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crimini	crimine	NOUN	S	nmod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Statuto	Statuto	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
376	376	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ritrattazione	Ritrattazione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
375	375	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
378	378	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritratta	ritrattare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
vero	vero	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritratta	ritrattare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
falso	falso	ADJ	A	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
vero	vero	ADJ	A	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	cop
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
377	377	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intralcio	intralcio	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promette	promettere	VERB	V	conj
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
investigativa	investigativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indurla	indure la	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
usa	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	NOUN	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
339	339	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
377-bis	377-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Induzione	Induzione	PROPN	SP	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	conj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
mendaci	mendaci	ADJ	A	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
induce	indurre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	conj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
mendaci	mendaci	ADJ	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
378	378	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Favoreggiamento	Favoreggiamento	PROPN	S	appos
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eludere	eludere	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
investigazioni	investigazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comprese	comprendere	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	DET	DD	dep
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
commesso	commettere	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quello	quello	PRON	PD	advcl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
aiutata	aiutato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
379	379	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Favoreggiamento	Favoreggiamento	PROPN	S	obl
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
648	648	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-bis	648-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
648-ter	648-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
379-bis	379-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rivelazione	rivelazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	ROOT
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
segrete	segreto	AUX	VA	aux
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
apprese	apprendere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-quinquies	391-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Patrocinio	Patrocinio	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
infedele	infedelo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rendendosi	rendere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
infedele	infedele	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arreca	arrecare	VERB	V	advcl
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
difesa	difendere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentata	rappresentare	VERB	V	conj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all	all	ADP	E_RD	dep
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aumentata	aumentato	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
colludendo	colludere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
avversaria	avversario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
commina	comminare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni.(5	anni.(5	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
infedeltà	infedeltà	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presta	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
contrarie	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
difeso	difendere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentato	rappresentare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
avversaria	avversario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Millantato	millantato	PROPN	SP	nmod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinatore	patrocinatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
millantando	millantare	VERB	V	advcl
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	VM	conj
dare	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettere	promettere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
cliente	cliente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
pretesto	pretesto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
doversi	dovere si	AUX	VM_PC	aux
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perito	perire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
doverli	dovere li	VERB	V_PC	conj
remunerare	remunerare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
383	383	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
381	381	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
383-bis	383-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
374	374	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
375	375	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
384	384	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
361	361	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
362	362	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
363	363	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
364	364	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
365	365	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
366	366	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
369	369	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
374	374	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
378	378	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costretto	costringere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
salvare	salvare	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inevitabile	inevitabile	ADJ	A	conj
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
onore	onore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimonio	testimonio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perito	perire	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	obl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
384-bis	384-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Punibilità	Punibilità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rogatoria	rogatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
366	366	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
367	367	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
368	368	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
369	369	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rogatoria	rogatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
384-ter	384-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	Circostanze	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
372	372	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
374	374	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
378	378	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sviare	sviare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
276	276	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
280	280	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
280-bis	280-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
304	304	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
305	305	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
306	306	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
422	422	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	obj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
nucleare	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chimico	chimico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
biologico	biologico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
371-ter	371-ter	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ripristinare	ripristinare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	conj
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depistaggio	depistaggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziarie	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
385	385	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Evasione	Evasione	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
arrestato	arrestare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
evade	evada	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
usando	usare	VERB	V	advcl
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
effrazione	effrazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
designato	designare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
allontani	allontano	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
lavorare	lavorare	VERB	V	xcomp
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dello	di il	DET	E_RD	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evaso	evaso	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
386	386	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procurata	Procurata	NOUN	A	appos
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
arrestata	arrestare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	advcl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
387	387	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
arrestata	arrestare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
387-bis	387-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvicinamento	avvicinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendovi	essere vi	VERB	V	advcl
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
violi	violare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
384-bis	384-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
elude	eludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
eguale	eguale	ADJ	A	amod
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	appos
dolosa	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
nascenti	nascere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
simulati	simulato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fraudolenti	fraudolento	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ottemperi	ottempere	VERB	S	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.032	1.032	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
elude	eludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concerna	concernare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incapaci	incapace	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
prescriva	prescrivo	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
elude	eludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prescriva	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
inibitorie	inibitorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
correttive	correttivo	ADJ	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
espresso	espresso	NOUN	S	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	CCONJ	PR	nsubj
riguardino	riguardino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viola	violare	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritarda	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidatore	liquidatore	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
debitrice	debitricere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invitato	invitare	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
pignorabili	pignorabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
388-bis	388-bis	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	SP	obl
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
seicentomila	seicentomilo	NUM	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
388-ter	388-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fraudolenta	fraudolenta	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
simulati	simulato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fraudolenti	fraudolento	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ottemperi	ottempere	ADJ	S	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
389	389	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	Inosservanza	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	VA	aux
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasgredisce	trasgredire	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
trasgredisce	trasgredire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
applicata	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
390	390	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procurata	procurato	VERB	A	amod
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
contravvenzione	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
386	386	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procurata	procurato	VERB	V	amod
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nasconde	nascondere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evaso	evaso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
favorisce	favorire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottrarsi	sottrarre si	VERB	V_PC	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
386	386	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoverso	capoverso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
387	387	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restrizioni	restrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41-bis	41-bis	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

Comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
elusione	elusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
detenuto	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restrizioni	restrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41-bis	41-bis	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
elusione	elusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
forense	forense	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenuto	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposto	sottoporre	NOUN	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restrizioni	restrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41-bis	41-bis	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
comunica	comunica	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
elusione	elusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
391-ter	391-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuti	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	V	acl:relcl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
detenuto	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
costui	costui	PRON	PE	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	compound
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
renderlo	rendere lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
detenuta	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obj
forense	forense	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenuto	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizza	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obj
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitraria	arbitrario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
392	392	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
arbitrario	arbitrario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
preteso	preteso	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
potendo	potere	VERB	V	advcl
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
arbitrariamente	arbitrariamente	ADV	B	advmod
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
danneggiata	danneggiare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasformata	trasformare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
mutata	mutare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
alterato	alterare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cancellato	cancellare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turbato	turbare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
393	393	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
arbitrario	arbitrario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
potendo	potere	VERB	V	advcl
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
arbitrariamente	arbitrariamente	ADV	B	advmod
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
usando	usare	VERB	V	advcl
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offeso	offeso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
duemila	duemila	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
393-bis	393-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Causa	Causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
337	337	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
338	338	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
339	339	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
339-bis	339-bis	PROPN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
341-bis	341-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
342	342	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
343	343	NUM	N	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
impiegato	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccedendo	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrari	arbitrare	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
396	396	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
397	397	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
398	398	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
399	399	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
401	401	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
QUARTO	QUARTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	ADP	E	case
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
SENTIMENTO	SENTIMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
RELIGIOSO	RELIGIOSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
PIETÀ	PIETÀ	PROPN	SP	conj
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DEFUNTI	DEFUNTI	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
confessioni	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
402	402	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	vilipendio	PROPN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
religione	religione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
vilipende	vilipendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
religione	religione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
403	403	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offese	offese	NOUN	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obl
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
offende	offendere	VERB	V	parataxis
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obj
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
professa	professo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
offende	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obj
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
404	404	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Offese	offese	NOUN	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obl
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offendendo	offendere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	obj
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vilipende	vilipendere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
ingiuriose	ingiurioso	ADJ	A	amod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
formino	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consacrate	consacrare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
necessariamente	necessariamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
privato	privare	VERB	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
intenzionalmente	intenzionalmente	ADV	B	conj
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imbratta	imbratta	ADJ	A	conj
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
formino	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consacrate	consacrare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
necessariamente	necessariamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
405	405	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Turbamento	turbamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	parataxis
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turba	turbare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cerimonie	cerimonia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	conj
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
compiano	compiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fare	VERB	V	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
406	406	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pietà	pietà	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunti	defunte	NOUN	S	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	Violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sepolcro	sepolcro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
viola	violare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
tomba	tomba	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sepolcro	sepolcro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
urna	urna	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
408	408	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tombe	tomba	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cimiteri	cimitere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sepoltura	sepoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tombe	tomba	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sepolcri	sepolcro	NOUN	SP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
urne	ure ne	PROPN	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
culto	culto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunti	defunte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ornamento	ornamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cimiteri	cimitere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Turbamento	turbamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
funerale	funerale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
funebre	funebre	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
405	405	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turba	turbare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
funerale	funerale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
funebre	funebre	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
410	410	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vilipendio	vilipendio	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vilipendio	vilipendio	NOUN	S	nmod
sopra	sopra	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ceneri	cenere	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	ADJ	A	amod
deturpa	deturpa	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mutila	mutila	NUM	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
brutalità	brutalità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
oscenità	oscenità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
411	411	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Distruzione	Distruzione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disperde	disperdire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
ceneri	cenere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cimiteri	cimitere	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sepoltura	sepoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ceneri	cenere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ceneri	cenere	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	S	case
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
412	412	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Occultamento	occultamento	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
nasconde	nascondere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
ceneri	cenere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
illegittimo	illegittimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
disseziona	dissezionare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
scientifici	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
didattici	didattico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cadavere	cadavere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	ADJ	A	amod
sappia	sappia	PROPN	V	nsubj
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	amod
mutilato	mutilare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occultato	occultare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
QUINTO	QUINTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	amod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ORDINE	ORDINE	PROPN	SP	obj
PUBBLICO	PUBBLICO	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
414	414	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	Istigazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
istiga	istiga	NOUN	A	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duemila	duemila	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
soggiace	soggiaca	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apologia	apologia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istigazione	istigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apologia	apologia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
crimini	crimine	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
umanità	umanità	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
414-bis	414-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	Istigazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pedofilia	pedofilia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pedopornografia	pedopornografia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
istiga	istiga	NOUN	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
600-quater	600-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
pornografico	pornografico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	ROOT
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apologia	apologia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invocate	invocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
scusa	scusa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
letterario	letterario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istigazione	Istigazione	PROPN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disobbedire	disobbedire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
istiga	istiga	NOUN	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disobbedienza	disobbedienza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
odio	odio	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
classi	classe	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	S	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
415-bis	415-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rivolta	rivolta	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rivolta	rivolta	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
impartiti	impartire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
passiva	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
coinvolte	coinvolto	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contesto	contesto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Coloro	Coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirigono	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivolta	rivolta	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissime	gravissimo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
morte	morto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggersi	infliggere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
venti	vento	ADJ	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Associazione	Associazione	NOUN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
associano	associare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nsubj
scorrono	scorrere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
campagne	campagna	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
vie	via	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
601	601	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
601-bis	601-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
602	602	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater	600-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-undecies	609-undecies	NOUN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
formata	formare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Coloro	Coloro	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirigono	dirigere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
solo	solo	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	ROOT
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intimidazione	intimidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
associativo	associativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettamento	assoggettamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
omertà	omertà	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretto	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
profitti	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vantaggi	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
ingiusti	ingiurre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voto	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	conj
voti	voto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consultazioni	consultazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elettorali	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
armata	armato	ADJ	A	advcl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventisei	ventisei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
armata	armata	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
occultate	occultato	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
finanziate	finanziare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	VERB	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod

MARZO	MARZO	NOUN	SP	ROOT
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
camorra	camorra	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
ndrangheta	ndrangheta	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
localmente	localmente	ADV	B	advmod
denominate	denominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
valendosi	valendosare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
intimidatrice	intimidatore	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
associativo	associativo	ADJ	A	amod
perseguono	perseguire	VERB	V	csubj
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
416-bis.1	416-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
mafiose	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravante	aggravante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
equivalenti	equivalente	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalenti	prevalente	ADJ	S	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzioni	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
aggravante	aggravante	NOUN	B	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	ADJ	B	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dissociandosi	dissociare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
aiutando	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Scambio	scambio	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
elettorale	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediari	intermediare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	acl
voti	voto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
cambio	cambio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mafiosa	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
promette	promettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediari	intermediare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	xcomp
voti	voto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
colui	colui	PRON	PD	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
promessa	promessa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
risultato	risultato	VERB	V	aux:pass
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	obl
elettorale	elettorale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	advmod
aumentata	aumentato	ADJ	A	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
417	417	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Misura	Misura	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
418	418	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	SP	appos
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associati	associato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
favoreggiamento	favoreggiamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
rifugio	rifugio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	conj
vitto	vitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ospitalità	ospitalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
continuatamente	continuatamente	ADV	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
419	419	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Devastazione	devastazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
devastazione	devastazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
su	su	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
viveri	vivere	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruggere	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
421	421	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
intimidazione	intimidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
devastazione	devastazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
incutere	incutere	VERB	V	acl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
timore	timore	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
421-bis	421-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
intimidazione	intimidazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
incutere	incutere	VERB	V	acl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
timore	timore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
suscitare	suscitare	VERB	V	conj
tumulto	tumulto	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
disordine	disordine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attentare	attentare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
esplodere	esplodere	VERB	V	ccomp
colpi	colpo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
scoppiare	scoppiare	VERB	V	ccomp
bombe	bomba	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
ordigni	ordigno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SESTO	SESTO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name

CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
L'	il	DET	RD	det
INCOLUMITÀ	INCOLUMITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
422	422	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Strage	Strage	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
uccidere	uccidere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
tali	tale	PRON	PD	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionata	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
423	423	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incendio	Incendio	PROPN	SP	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incendio	Incendio	NOUN	S	appos
boschivo	boschivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controfuoco	controfuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	conj
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
boschi	bosco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
selve	selvere	VERB	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
zone	zona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interfaccia	interfaccia	NOUN	S	nmod
urbano	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
rurale	rurale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
vivai	vivao	NOUN	S	amod
forestali	forestale	NOUN	S	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimboschimento	rimboschimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
propri	proprio	DET	AP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
specie	specie	NOUN	B	conj
animali	animale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	conj
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esteso	esteso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
persistente	persistente	ADJ	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	conj
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incendi	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
boschivi	boschivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incendio	Incendio	NOUN	S	ROOT
boschivo	boschivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	VERB	A	nsubj
cagioni	cagione	NOUN	S	appos
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj
su	su	ADP	E	case
boschi	bosco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
selve	selva	NOUN	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
vivai	vivao	NOUN	S	amod
forestali	forestale	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimboschimento	rimboschimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
propri	proprio	DET	AP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
aree	area	NOUN	S	nmod
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esteso	esteso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
persistente	persistente	ADJ	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
423-ter	423-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
31	31	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
prevalente	prevalente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incarichi	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lotta	lotta	NOUN	S	nmod
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incedi	incede	NOUN	S	nmod
boschivi	boschivo	ADJ	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	appos
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
423-quater	423-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
confiscati	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	advmod
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Danneggiamento	Danneggiamento	PROPN	SP	nmod
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appicca	appiccare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
propria	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
423	423	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	obl
appiccato	appiccare	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
boschi	bosco	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
selve	selva	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
vivai	vivai	VERB	V	conj
forestali	forestale	ADJ	S	obj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimboschimento	rimboschimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segue	seguire	VERB	V	parataxis
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
425	425	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	obl
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
423	423	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
424	424	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
monumenti	monumento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cimiteri	cimitere	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	nmod
abitati	abitato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cantieri	cantiere	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
miniere	miniera	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cave	cava	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sorgenti	sorgente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
acquedotti	acquedotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
manufatti	manufatto	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
raccogliere	raccogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condurre	condurre	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	conj
natanti	natante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
scali	scalo	NOUN	S	obl
ferroviari	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
marittimi	marittimi	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aeroscali	aeroscale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	conj
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
derrate	derrare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
ammassi	ammasso	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
infiammabili	infiammabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
combustibili	combustibile	ADJ	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5°	5°	ADJ	NO	amod
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	S	nmod
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
426	426	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inondazione	Inondazione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
frana	frana	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valanga	valanga	NOUN	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
inondazione	inondazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
frana	frana	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
caduta	caduta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valanga	valanga	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
427	427	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Danneggiamento	Danneggiamento	PROPN	SP	nmod
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
inondazione	inondazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
frana	frana	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valanga	valanga	NOUN	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
rompe	rompe	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
chiuse	chiuso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sbarramenti	sbarramente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
argini	argine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dighe	diga	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valanghe	valanga	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
frane	frano	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
inondazione	inondazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
frana	frana	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caduta	caduta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
valanga	valanga	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
428	428	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Naufragio	Naufragio	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
aviatorio	aviatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
edificio	edificio	NOUN	S	conj
natante	natante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
caduta	caduta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
proprietari	proprietario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
distruggendo	distruggere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimuovendo	rimuovere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facendo	fare	VERB	V	conj
mancare	mancare	VERB	B	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
lanterne	lanterna	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segnali	segnale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
adoperando	adoperare	VERB	V	conj
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
segnali	segnale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
edificio	edificio	NOUN	S	conj
natante	natante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
caduta	caduta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
429	429	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Danneggiamento	Danneggiamento	PROPN	SP	nsubj
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
edificio	edificio	NOUN	S	conj
natante	natante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apparecchio	apparecchio	ADJ	A	amod
prescritto	prescritto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inservibile	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
aviatorio	aviatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
430	430	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disastro	disastro	PROPN	SP	nmod
ferroviario	ferroviario	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
ferroviario	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
431	431	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nmod
ferroviario	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
causato	causare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
danneggiamento	danneggiamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
danneggiare	danneggiare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
strada	strada	NOUN	S	obj
ferrata	ferrato	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
distrugge	distruggere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nmod
ferroviario	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
strade	strada	NOUN	S	obl
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
strade	strada	NOUN	S	obl
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	acl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strada	strada	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
rotaie	rotaia	NOUN	S	nmod
metalliche	metallico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
circolino	circolino	NOUN	S	obl
veicoli	veicolo	ADJ	A	amod
mossi	mottere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vapore	vapore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
elettricità	elettricità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trazione	trazione	NOUN	S	nmod
meccanica	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
432	432	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentati	attentato	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
lancia	lanciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
contundenti	contundente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
proiettili	proiettile	ADJ	A	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
movimento	movimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
433	433	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentati	attentato	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
attenta	attentare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
illuminazione	illuminazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
industrie	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
derivi	derivo	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
attenta	attentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
telegrafiche	telegrafico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telefoniche	telefonico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivo	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
433-bis	433-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentato	attentato	PROPN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
attenta	attentare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
installazioni	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
nucleari	nucleare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivo	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
434	434	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Crollo	crollo	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
disastri	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
dolosi	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cagionare	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
crollo	crollo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
crollo	crollo	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
434-bis	434-bis	NUM	N	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
435	435	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attentare	attentare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
dinamite	dinamite	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
asfissianti	asfissiante	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accecanti	accecanto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tossiche	tossico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infiammabili	infiammabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servano	servare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
divulga	divulga	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diffonde	diffondere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblicizza	pubblicizza	NOUN	S	conj
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tecnica	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
puniti	punito	VERB	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
436	436	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
guasto	guasto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
infortuni	infortuno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
inondazione	inondazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottrae	sottrae	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
salvataggio	salvataggio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ostacola	ostacolo	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	conj
opera	opera	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
437	437	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	appos
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
dolosa	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
infortuni	infortuno	PRON	PI	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
omette	ometto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
collocare	collocare	VERB	V	xcomp
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segnali	segnale	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	xcomp
disastri	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infortuni	infortuno	PRON	PI	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
rimuove	rimuovo	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
danneggia	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
infortunio	infortunio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
438	438	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Epidemia	Epidemia	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
epidemia	epidemia	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
germi	germo	NOUN	S	nmod
patogeni	patogene	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
439	439	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Avvelenamento	avvelenamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nmod
avvelena	avvelenare	VERB	A	amod
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
attinte	attinte	ADV	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuite	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
440	440	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Adulterazione	adulterazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
corrompe	corrompa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adultera	adulterare	VERB	V	conj
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
attinte	attinte	ADV	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuite	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rendendole	rendere lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adulterate	adulterare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medicinali	medicinale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
441	441	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Adulterazione	adulterazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
adultera	adulterare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	PI	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
tremila	tremila	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
442	442	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adulterate	adulterato	VERB	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	parataxis
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	ADJ	S	amod
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	dep
state	essere	AUX	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
avvelenate	avvelenata	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrotte	corrotta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adulterate	adulterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
443	443	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somministrazione	somministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
guasti	guasto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
somministra	somministra	NOUN	S	conj
medicinali	medicinale	ADJ	A	amod
guasti	guasto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imperfetti	imperfetto	NOUN	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
nocive	nocivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	compound
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
adulterate	adulterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj
nociva	nocivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nota	noto	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	il	PRON	PC	det
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	obj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Somministrazione	somministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercitando	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
medicinali	medicinale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somministra	somministra	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinazioni	ordinazione	NOUN	S	obl
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pattuita	pattuito	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
446	446	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	appos
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
439	439	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
440	440	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
441	441	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
442	442	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
123	123	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
447	447	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pene	Pene	PROPN	SP	appos
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
439	439	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
440	440	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
441	441	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
442	442	NUM	N	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mestiere	mestiere	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
quotidiani	quotidiano	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
449	449	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitti	Delitti	PROPN	SP	nsubj
colposi	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiata	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obl
ferroviario	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
adibita	adibire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
caduta	caduta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
adibito	adibire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitti	Delitti	PROPN	SP	appos
colposi	colposi	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
colposa	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

fa	fare	AUX	VM	parataxis
sorgere	sorgere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persistere	persistere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nmod
ferroviario	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
inondazione	inondazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
naufragio	naufragio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sommersione	sommersione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
edificio	edificio	NOUN	S	conj
natante	natante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trasgredito	trasgredire	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
451	451	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omissione	Omissione	NOUN	S	appos
colposa	colposo	ADJ	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
difese	difesa	NOUN	V	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
disastri	disastro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infortuni	infortuno	PRON	PI	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
collocare	collocare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimuove	rimuovo	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incendio	incendio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salvataggio	salvataggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
disastri	disastro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infortuni	infortuno	PRON	PI	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
452	452	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitti	Delitti	PROPN	SP	appos
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
438	438	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
439	439	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	NUM	N	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
stabiliscono	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
439	439	NUM	N	nummod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
440	440	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
441	441	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
442	442	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
443	443	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
444	444	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
445	445	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	appos
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
compromissione	compromissione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	conj
significativi	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
misurabili	misurabile	ADJ	A	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
porzioni	porzione	NOUN	S	conj
estese	estese	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suolo	suolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottosuolo	sottosuolo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiversità	biodiversità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agraria	agrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flora	flora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fauna	fauna	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
area	area	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
paesaggistico	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
architettonico	architettonico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
animali	animale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	conj
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
causi	causo	NOUN	S	nmod
deterioramento	deterioramento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compromissione	compromissione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
habitat	habitat	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
area	area	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
paesaggistico	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
architettonico	architettonico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-ter	452-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	nummod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
voluta	volere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reo	reo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lesioni	lesione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
infliggersi	infliggere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
venti	vento	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
452-quater	452-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	ROOT
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
434	434	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	ROOT
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	obj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
alternativamente	alternativamente	NOUN	A	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
irreversibile	irreversibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
onerosa	oneroso	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conseguibile	conseguibile	ADJ	A	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compromissione	compromissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
lesivi	lesivo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offese	offendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esposte	esporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
area	area	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
protetta	proteggere	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
paesaggistico	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
architettonico	architettonico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
animali	animale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	conj
protette	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-quinquies	452-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delitti	Delitti	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
colposi	colposi	VERB	V_PC	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
452-quater	452-quater	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disastro	disastro	NOUN	S	conj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ulteriormente	ulteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-sexies	452-sexies	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Traffico	Traffico	PROPN	SP	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
radioattività	radioattività	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	amod
cede	cedere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasporta	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esporta	esporto	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procura	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbandona	abbandonare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
disfa	disfa	VERB	V	conj
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
radioattività	radioattività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
compromissione	compromissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
porzioni	porzione	NOUN	S	conj
estese	estese	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
significative	significativo	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suolo	suolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottosuolo	sottosuolo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ecosistema	ecosistema	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiversità	biodiversità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agraria	agrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flora	flora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fauna	fauna	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-septies	452-septies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negando	negare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predisponendo	predisponere	VERB	V	advcl
ostacoli	ostacolo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mutando	mutare	VERB	V	conj
artificiosamente	artificiosamente	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intralcia	intralciare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elude	eludere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
igiene	igiene	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
compromette	compromettere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esiti	esito	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-octies	452-octies	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	ROOT
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorrente	concorrente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
finalizzata	finalizzare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
fanno	fare	VERB	V	advcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-novies	452-novies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	PRON	PI	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
posta	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2006	2006	NUM	N	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tutela	tutelare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
procedibile	procedibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-decies	452-decies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ravvedimento	Ravvedimento	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
operoso	operoso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	appos
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
452-octies	452-octies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
colui	colui	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aiuta	aiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ove	Ove	SCONJ	B	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prorogabile	prorogabile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-undecies	452-undecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
452-bis	452-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quater	452-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-sexies	452-sexies	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-septies	452-septies	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
452-octies	452-octies	NOUN	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essa	esso	PRON	PE	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
confiscati	confiscare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trova	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	advmod
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-duodecies	452-duodecies	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ripristino	Ripristino	PROPN	SP	advcl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	dep
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ponendone	ponendone	VERB	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sesta	sesto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-terdecies	452-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	ROOT
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendovi	essere vi	VERB	V	acl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bonifica	bonifica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
80.000	80.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
452-quaterdecies	452-quaterdecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	Attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
organizzate	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	obl
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conseguire	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allestimento	allestimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
continuative	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzate	organizzare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cede	cedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasporta	trasportare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esporta	esporto	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
gestisce	gestire	VERB	V	conj
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ingenti	ingente	ADJ	A	amod
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alta	alto	ADJ	A	amod
radioattività	radioattività	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
conseguono	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
30	30	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32-bis	32-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
32-ter	32-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
subordinare	subordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SETTIMO	SETTIMO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
FEDE	FEDE	PROPN	SP	nmod
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	DET	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
453	453	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsificazione	Falsificazione	PROPN	SP	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spendita	spendire	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
concerto	concerto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
falsificate	falsificato	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trentamila	trentamila	NOUN	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	obl
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl:relcl
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
monete	moneta	NOUN	A	amod
genuine	genuino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
dare	dare	VERB	V	dep
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apparenza	apparenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	xcomp
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	parataxis
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spende	spenda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
monete	moneto	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterate	alterato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	csubj
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
metterle	mettere le	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	parataxis
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
falsificate	falsificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterate	alterato	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbrica	fabbrico	NOUN	A	conj
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
eccesso	eccesso	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
monete	moneto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	dep
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
corso	corso	VERB	V	xcomp
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
iniziale	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
454	454	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
altera	alterare	VERB	V	ROOT
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scemandone	scemandone	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
alterate	alterato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	conj
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3°	3°	PUNCT	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
455	455	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spendita	Spendita	PROPN	SP	vocative
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
falsificate	falsificato	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	obj
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterate	alterato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
metterle	mettere le	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spende	spenda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
456	456	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
453	453	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
455	455	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
preveduti	preveduto	ADJ	V	acl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valuta	valuta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compromesso	compromesso	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercati	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
interni	interno	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
457	457	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spendita	Spendita	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
falsificate	falsificato	ADJ	A	amod
ricevute	ricevuto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
spende	spendere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
monete	moneto	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterate	alterato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
458	458	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Parificazione	parificazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	VERB	S	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
parificate	parificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	ADJ	A	amod
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
corso	correre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
moneta	moneta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
carte	carta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cedole	cedola	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatore	portatore	NOUN	S	nmod
emesse	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governi	governo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
emesse	emettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
459	459	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsificazione	Falsificazione	NOUN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
messa	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
falsificati	falsificato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
diposizioni	diposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
453	453	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
455	455	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
457	457	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
messa	mettere	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nsubj
bollata	bollato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
marche	marca	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
francobolli	francobollo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
460	460	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	Contraffazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
filigranata	filigranare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	obj
filigranata	filigranare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
credito	credito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquista	acquistare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aliena	alieno	ADJ	V	conj
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
carta	carta	NOUN	S	obj
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
tremila	tremila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
461	461	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
filigrane	filigrana	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsificazione	falsificazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
filigranata	filigranato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aliena	alieno	DET	A	amod
filigrane	filigrane	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
monete	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	conj
filigranata	filigranato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
ologrammi	ologrammi	VERB	V	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
moneta	moneta	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
462	462	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsificazione	Falsificazione	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strade	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
metterli	mettere li	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	det
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	obj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
duemila	duemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
463	463	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riesce	riere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
464	464	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuti	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
457	457	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
465	465	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	nmod
falsificati	falsificato	ADJ	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strade	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffatti	contraffatto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuti	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seicentomila	seicentomila	NUM	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
466	466	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	conj
usati	usato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
alterati	alterare	VERB	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
cancella	cancellare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
scomparire	scomparire	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strade	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
appostivi	appostivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
fattone	fattone	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lasci	lasco	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biglietti	biglietto	NOUN	S	conj
alterati	alterato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seicentomila	seicentomila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
466-bis	466-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
453	453	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
454	454	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
455	455	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
460	460	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
461	461	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-ter	322-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
467	467	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatto	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposto	apporre	VERB	V	xcomp
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatto	contraffatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
468	468	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatto	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
contraffà	contraffàre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	SCONJ	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
469	469	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffà	contraffàre	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
reca	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impronta	impronta	NOUN	S	obj
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
470	470	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vendita	Vendita	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquista	acquistare	VERB	S	conj
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	V	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	nsubj
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
471	471	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
abusivo	abusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
veri	vero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendosi	essendoso	ADJ	A	amod
procurati	procurare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
veri	vero	ADJ	A	amod
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
veri	vero	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
tremila	tremila	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
472	472	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pesi	peso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
impronta	impronta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pesi	peso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impronta	impronta	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterata	alterare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
spaccio	spaccio	NOUN	S	conj
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pesi	peso	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impronta	impronta	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterata	alterare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pesi	peso	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
misurare	misurare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pesare	pesare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	Contraffazione	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
potendo	potere	VERB	V	aux
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	A	conj
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.500	2.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
25.000	25.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Soggiace	soggiace	PROPN	SP	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.500	3.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
35.000	35.000	NUM	N	nummod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	A	conj
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	SCONJ	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
brevetti	brevetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
474	474	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Introduzione	Introduzione	PROPN	SP	appos
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.500	3.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
35.000	35.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
474-bis	474-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-ter	322-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
dimostri	dimostro	NOUN	PI	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
averne	avere ne	AUX	V_PC	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incorsa	incorsa	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
474-ter	474-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	obl
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sistematico	sistematico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allestimento	allestimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
organizzate	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	parataxis
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
474	474	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
474-quater	474-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	obl
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
aiutare	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitti	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
475	475	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	NOUN	S	appos
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
476	476	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forma	forma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
vero	vero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
477	477	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obl
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	A	conj
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
apparire	apparire	VERB	V	ccomp
adempiute	adempiere	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
478	478	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	appos
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obl
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
attestati	attestato	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
supponendo	supponere	VERB	VA	aux
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
simula	simulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilascia	rilascia	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privare	ADJ	A	conj
diversa	diverso	PRON	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
479	479	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
ideologica	ideologico	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	ROOT
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevendo	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
formando	formare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	B	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
ricevute	ricevuto	ADJ	V	obj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	A	conj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
ricevute	ricevuta	NOUN	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	advmod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
476	476	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
ideologica	ideologico	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
481	481	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	appos
ideologica	ideologico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
certificati	certificati	NOUN	S	nmod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
esercenti	esercentare	ADJ	V	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forense	forenso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	parataxis
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tali	tale	DET	DD	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
482	482	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	ROOT
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
476	476	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
477	477	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
478	478	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
483	483	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
ideologica	ideologico	ADJ	A	amod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	parataxis
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fatto	VERB	S	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provare	provare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
86	86	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------	----------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	V	aux
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scrive	scrivere	VERB	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lascia	lasciare	VERB	V	conj
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
tremila	tremila	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
485	485	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
486	486	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
487	487	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	nmod
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bianco	bianco	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	ROOT
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusando	abusare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	obl
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bianco	bianco	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riempirlo	riempire lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
scrive	scrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
479	479	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
480	480	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
488	488	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	obl
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bianco	bianco	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	nmod
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bianco	bianco	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	V_PC	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
487	487	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
489	489	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
soggiace	soggiace	NOUN	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	S	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
490	490	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
veri	vero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
vero	vero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obj
olografo	olografo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cambiale	cambiale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmissibile	trasmissibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
girata	girata	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatore	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
veri	vero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	advcl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
476	476	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
477	477	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
482	482	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
distinzioni	distinzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	nmod
olografo	olografo	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cambiale	cambiale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
prevedute	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obj
olografo	olografo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cambiale	cambiale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmissibile	trasmissibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
girata	girata	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatore	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
476	476	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
482	482	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	SCONJ	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiace	soggiacere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
489	489	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
491-bis	491-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Documenti	Documenti	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
probatoria	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
492	492	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Copie	copia	NOUN	SP	appos
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tengono	tengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
tengano	tengare	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
97a	97a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
493	493	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsità	Falsità	NOUN	S	obl
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
redigono	redigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
493-bis	493-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perseguibilità	perseguibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
490	490	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
491	491	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concernono	concerne	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cambiale	cambiale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmissibile	trasmissibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
girata	girata	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatore	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obj
olografo	olografo	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
493-ter	493-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Indebito	indebito	NOUN	SP	ROOT
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
falsificazione	falsificazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contanti	contante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	SP	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	A	advmod
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendone	essendonere	VERB	V	advcl
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
carte	carta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abiliti	abilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
contante	contante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contanti	contante	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.550	1.550	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
falsifica	falsifico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
possiede	possedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cede	cedere	VERB	V	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tali	tali	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
falsificati	falsificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
somme	somma	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
493-quater	493-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
riguardanti	riguardante	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contanti	contante	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentirne	consentire ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardante	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contanti	contante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esporta	esporto	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vende	vendere	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasporta	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mette	mettere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
costruttive	costruttivo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
progettazione	progettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costruiti	costruire	VERB	V	conj
principalmente	principalmente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	V	conj
adattati	adattare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
494	494	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
induce	indurre	VERB	V	ROOT
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostituendo	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attribuendo	attribuere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
495	495	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsa	Falsa	PROPN	SP	appos
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritta	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
495-bis	495-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsa	Falsa	ADJ	A	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificatore	certificatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	conj
falsamente	falsamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presta	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
firme	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
elettroniche	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
495-ter	495-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fraudolente	Fraudolente	PROPN	SP	advmod
alterazioni	alterazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altera	alterare	VERB	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	AP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	compound
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
496	496	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
False	False	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	appos
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interrogato	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
mendaci	mendace	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
497	497	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	ccomp
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
indebito	indebito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
procura	procurare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domandato	domandare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
497-bis	497-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Possesso	possesso	NOUN	SP	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trovato	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
valido	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
forma	formare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
497-ter	497-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Possesso	Possesso	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
497-bis	497-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	ROOT
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
simulano	simulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
forma	formare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
illecitamente	illecitamente	ADV	B	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
498	498	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Usurpazione	Usurpazione	NOUN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
onori	onore	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
497-ter	497-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
porta	portare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
divisa	divisa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Corpo	Corpo	NOUN	S	conj
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
indossa	indossare	VERB	V	conj
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abito	abito	NOUN	S	obj
ecclesiastico	ecclesiastico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomilare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
ottocentomila	ottocentomila	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggiace	soggiacere	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
arroga	arrogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	conj
accademici	accademice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorazioni	decorazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
insegne	insegna	NOUN	S	conj
onorifiche	onorifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
OTTAVO	OTTAVO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	det
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ECONOMIA	ECONOMIA	PROPN	SP	obj
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
INDUSTRIA	INDUSTRIA	PROPN	SP	dep
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
COMMERCIO	COMMERCIO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
499	499	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distruggendo	distruggere	VERB	V	advcl
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obj
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
venir	venire	VERB	V	ccomp
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
notevole	notevole	ADJ	A	amod
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
largo	largo	ADJ	A	amod
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
ventimila	ventimila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	obl
rurale	rurale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestale	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
zootecnico	zootecnico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nazione	nazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
501	501	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rialzo	Rialzo	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ribasso	ribasso	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolento	fraudolento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
borse	borsa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obj
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
divulga	divulga	VERB	V	ROOT
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esagerate	esagerare	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tendenziose	tendenzioso	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	conj
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
artifici	artifico	NOUN	S	obj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cagionare	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziabili	negoziabile	ADJ	A	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
diminuzione	diminuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiate	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deprezzamento	deprezzamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valuta	valuta	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rincaro	rincaro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
largo	largo	ADJ	A	amod
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valuta	valuta	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
501-bis	501-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Manovre	Manovre	PROPN	SP	obl
speculative	speculativo	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
manovre	manovro	ADJ	A	obj
speculative	speculativo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
occulta	occulto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accaparra	accaparrare	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incetta	incetta	ADJ	A	conj
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obj
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
generi	genere	NOUN	S	conj
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
largo	largo	ADJ	A	amod
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
atto	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinarne	determinare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rarefazione	rarefazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rincaro	rincaro	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fenomeni	fenomeno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rarefazione	rarefazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rincaro	rincaro	NOUN	A	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedono	procede	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obj
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
625	625	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Serrata	Serrata	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sciopero	sciopero	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24a	24a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
addetti	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbandonano	abbandonare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
turbarne	turbare ne	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
patti	patto	ADJ	A	amod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patti	patto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24a	24a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24a	24a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
503	503	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Serrata	Serrata	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sciopero	sciopero	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrattuali	contrattuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
politico	politico	ADJ	A	amod
commettono	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Coazione	coazione	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
serrata	serrato	ADJ	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sciopero	sciopero	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
costringere	costringere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	acl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazioni	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
505	505	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Serrata	Serrata	NOUN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sciopero	sciopero	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protesta	protesta	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commettono	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
protesta	protesta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
506	506	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Serrata	Serrata	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
industrie	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerci	commere ci	VERB	V_PC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avendo	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
sospendono	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggiacciono	soggiacciere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
datori	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
507	507	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Boicottaggio	Boicottaggio	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
503	503	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
504	504	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
505	505	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
propaganda	propaganda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valendosi	valendoso	ADJ	V_PC	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partiti	partito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
leghe	lega	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
induce	indurre	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	xcomp
patti	patto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
somministrare	somministrare	VERB	V	conj
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fare	VERB	V	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
508	508	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Arbitraria	Arbitraria	PROPN	SP	appos
invasione	invasione	NOUN	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sabotaggio	Sabotaggio	PROPN	SP	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invade	invadere	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occupa	occupare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obj
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Soggiace	soggiace	PROPN	SP	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
danneggia	danneggiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
edifici	edificio	NOUN	S	obj
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
509	509	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	Inosservanza	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinanti	disciplinante	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
datore	datore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
derivano	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
corporativi	corporativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
142	142	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
510	510	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
dimostrazioni	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tumulti	tumulti	NOUN	V_PC	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sommosse	sommore	VERB	SP	conj
popolari	popolare	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
511	511	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzatori	organizzatore	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiate	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
capi	capo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
promotori	promotore	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
organizzatori	organizzatore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
512	512	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	NOUN	S	appos
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
502	502	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
512-bis	512-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	appos
fraudolento	fraudolento	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
fittiziamente	fittiziamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eludere	eludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrabbando	contrabbando	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
648	648	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
648-bis	648-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
648-ter	648-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eludere	eludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
fittiziamente	fittiziamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
societarie	societario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cariche	carica	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imprenditore	imprenditore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
partecipi	partecipa	ADJ	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggiudicazione	aggiudicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appalti	appalto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessioni	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
513	513	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Turbata	Turbata	PROPN	SP	nmod
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
adopera	adopera	VERB	S	ROOT
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	compound
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
513-bis	513-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Illecita	illecitare	VERB	V	ROOT
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	ROOT

nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minaccia	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
finanziata	finanziare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
514	514	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frodi	Frodi	PROPN	SP	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
industrie	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ponendo	porre	VERB	V	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mettendo	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercati	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nocumento	nocumento	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila	cinquemila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggii	leggii	NOUN	S	nmod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
515	515	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Frode	Frode	PROPN	SP	appos
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
spaccio	spaccio	NOUN	S	conj
aperto	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	parataxis
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pattuita	pattuito	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
ventimila	ventimila	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
preziosi	prezioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
genuine	genuino	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
genuine	genuino	ADJ	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
pone	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
genuine	genuino	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
genuine	genuino	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
517	517	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
mendaci	mendaco	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	appos


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
pone	porre	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
opere	opera	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingegno	ingegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
indurre	indurre	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compratore	compratore	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
ventimila	ventimila	NOUN	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
517-bis	517-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	appos
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
515	515	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
516	516	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517	517	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
alimenti	alimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevandere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
geografica	geografico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
specificità	specificità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
protette	protetto	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	obl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidiva	recidivo	ADJ	A	amod
specifica	specifico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
517-ter	517-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fabbricazione	Fabbricazione	NOUN	SP	vocative
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
usurpando	usurpare	VERB	V	advcl
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salva	Salva	PROPN	A	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
potendo	potere	VERB	V	aux
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	conj
industrialmente	industrialmente	ADV	B	advmod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
usurpando	usurpare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
474-bis	474-bis	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
474-ter	474-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517-bis	517-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
intellettuale	intellettuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
517-quater	517-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	Contraffazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agroalimentari	agroalimentario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
altera	alterare	VERB	A	conj
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agroalimentari	agroalimentario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	parataxis
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
474-bis	474-bis	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
474-ter	474-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517-bis	517-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
geografiche	geografico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agroalimentari	agroalimentario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
517-quinquies	517-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanza	Circostanza	PROPN	SP	obl
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
517-ter	517-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517-quater	517-quater	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
aiutare	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
517-ter	517-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517-quater	517-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concorrenti	concorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitti	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
518	518	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
501	501	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
514	514	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
515	515	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
516	516	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
517	517	NUM	N	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
VIII	VIII	PROPN	SP	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	appos
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	ADP	E	case
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
PATRIMONIO	PATRIMONIO	NOUN	S	nmod
CULTURALE	CULTURALE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
518-bis	518-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Furto	Furto	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impossessa	impossessare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottraendolo	sottraendolo	NOUN	S	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impossessa	impossessare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
rinvenuti	rinvenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottosuolo	sottosuolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondali	fondale	NOUN	S	conj
marini	marino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
927	927	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
927	927	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	flat
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
625	625	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
furto	furto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
rinvenuti	rinvenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottosuolo	sottosuolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondali	fondale	NOUN	S	conj
marini	marino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-ter	518-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Appropriazione	Appropriazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
indebita	indebire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ingiusto	ingiusto	ADJ	A	amod
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
appropria	appropriare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
possedute	possedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-quater	518-quater	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricettazione	Ricettazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	det:predet
un	uno	DET	RI	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	parataxis
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	ADJ	A	amod
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intromette	intromette	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	mark
farli	fare li	VERB	V_PC	aux
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occultare	occultare	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.032	1.032	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	parataxis
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rapina	rapina	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravata	aggravato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
628	628	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
estorsione	estorsione	NOUN	S	conj
aggravata	aggravato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
629	629	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provengono	provenire	AUX	V	cop
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-quinquies	518-quinquies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impiego	Impiego	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
518-quater	518-quater	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
518-sexies	518-sexies	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiega	impiegare	VERB	V	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziarie	finanziaria	ADJ	A	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tredici	tredici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provengono	provenire	AUX	V	cop
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-sexies	518-sexies	NUM	N	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riciclaggio	Riciclaggio	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	parataxis
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	parataxis
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provengono	provenire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provengono	provenire	AUX	V	cop
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
518-septies	518-septies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Autoriciclaggio	Autoriciclaggio	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiega	impiegare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziarie	finanziaria	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imprenditoriali	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
speculative	speculativo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	acl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
6.000	6.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provengono	provenire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mera	mero	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
518-quater	518-quater	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-octies	518-octies	ADJ	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Falsificazione	Falsificazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
forma	formare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altera	alterare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distrugge	distrugge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
vera	vero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
apparire	apparire	VERB	V	ccomp
lecita	lecita	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-novies	518-novies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazioni	Violazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000	2.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
80.000	80.000	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aliena	alieno	ADJ	A	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immette	immetto	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	compound
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendovi	essere vi	VERB	V_B	acl
tenuto	tenere	VERB	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alienante	alienante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prelazione	prelazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-decies	518-decies	PRON	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Importazione	Importazione	NOUN	SP	appos
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
518-quater	518-quater	NUM	AP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
518-quinquies	518-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
518-sexies	518-sexies	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
518-septies	518-septies	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
importa	importare	VERB	V	parataxis
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinvenuti	rinvenuto	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvenimento	rinvenimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportati	esportare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.165	5.165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-undecies	518-undecies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uscita	Uscita	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
illecite	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnoantropologico	etnoantropologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bibliografico	bibliografico	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documentale	documentale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archivistico	archivistico	ADJ	A	conj

o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
attestato	attestato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
80.000	80.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rientrare	rientrare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
storico	storico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
etnoantropologico	etnoantropologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bibliografico	bibliografico	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documentale	documentale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archivistico	archivistico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
temporanee	temporanee	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
mendaci	mendace	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comprovare	comprovare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
518-duodecies	518-duodecies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Distruzione	Distruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispersione	dispersione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deterioramento	deterioramento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deturpamento	deturpamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imbrattamento	imbrattamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
distrugge	distruggere	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disperde	disperdere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deteriora	deteriorare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fruibili	fruibile	VERB	V	advcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
propri	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2.500	2.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deturpa	deturpare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imbratta	imbratta	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
propri	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
destina	destinare	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
pregiudizievole	pregiudizievole	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dannose	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
retribuita	retribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
sospesa	sospeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-terdecies	518-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Devastazione	Devastazione	NOUN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
devastazione	devastazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
saccheggio	saccheggio	NOUN	S	conj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
paesaggistici	paesaggistico	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
518-quaterdecies	518-quaterdecies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contraffazione	Contraffazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altera	alterare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproduce	riprodurre	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pittura	pittura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scultura	scultura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
grafica	grafica	NOUN	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
antichità	antichità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraffazione	contraffazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	parataxis
per	per	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
autentici	autentico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esemplari	esemplare	NOUN	S	conj
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprodotti	riprodotto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pittura	pittura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scultura	scultura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
grafica	grafica	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
antichità	antichità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conoscendone	conoscendonere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	appos
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprodotti	riprodotto	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perizie	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
timbri	timbre	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
etichette	etichetta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accredita	accreditare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contribuisce	contribuire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accreditare	accreditare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conoscendone	conoscendonere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
autentici	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
opere	opera	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprodotti	riprodotto	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esemplari	esemplare	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riprodotti	riprodotto	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
confiscate	confiscato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aste	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-quinquiesdecies	518-quinquiesdecies	AUX	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
518-quaterdecies	518-quaterdecies	PROPN	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
riproduce	riprodurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
diffonde	diffondere	NOUN	V	conj
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pittura	pittura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
scultura	scultura	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grafica	grafica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imitazioni	imitazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
antichità	antichità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
archeologico	archeologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imitazione	imitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restauri	restauro	NOUN	S	obl
artistici	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricostruito	ricostruire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
determinante	determinante	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
originale	originale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-sexiesdecies	518-sexiesdecies	ADJ	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	parataxis
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	advcl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bancaria	bancario	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-septiesdecies	518-septiesdecies	NUM	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
cagioni	cagione	NOUN	S	compound
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	advcl
dannoso	dannoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericoloso	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	parataxis
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correi	correo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
efficacemente	efficacemente	ADV	B	advmod
adoperato	adoperare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
fosse	essere	AUX	VA	aux
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
recuperato	recuperare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
recuperare	recuperare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-duodevicies	518-duodevicies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
518-undecies	518-undecies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
appartengano	appartengano	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
666	666	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrabbando	contrabbando	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servirono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reo	reo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
natanti	natanto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autovetture	autovettura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
motocicli	motociclo	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
518-undevicies	518-undevicies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fatto	fatto	AUX	SP	appos
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
NONO	NONO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	case
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
MORALITÀ	MORALITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
PUBBLICA	PUBBLICA	PROPN	S	flat:name
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
BUON	BUON	PROPN	SP	nmod
COSTUME	COSTUME	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1996	1996	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offese	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pudore	pudore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onore	onore	NOUN	S	conj
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
527	527	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	SP	appos
osceni	oscene	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aprire	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esposto	esporre	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	ADJ	A	obj
osceni	osceno	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediate	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
vicinanze	vicinanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
assistano	assistano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seicentomila	seicentomila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
528	528	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblicazioni	Pubblicazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	conj
osceni	oscene	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esporli	espore li	VERB	V_PC	conj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	parataxis
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esporta	esporto	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritti	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immagini	immagine	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
osceni	oscene	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
clandestino	clandestare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
distribuisce	distribuire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
espone	espone	NOUN	S	conj
pubblicamente	pubblicamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
adopera	adopera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
atto	atto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	ADJ	NO	ROOT

dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	obj
teatrali	teatrale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinematografici	cinematografico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
audizioni	audizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
recitazioni	recitazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
oscenità	oscenità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2°	2°	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
529	529	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Atti	Atti	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
osceni	oscene	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
nozione	nozione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
osceni	oscene	NOUN	S	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
sentimento	sentimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offendono	offendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pudore	pudore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
oscena	oscena	ADJ	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arte	arte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scienza	scienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
offerta	offrire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
venduta	vendere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
procurata	procurare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	B	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
531	531	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
532	532	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
533	533	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
534	534	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
535	535	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
536	536	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
537	537	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tratta	Tratta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
donne	donna	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
538	538	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Misura	Misura	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
531	531	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
532	532	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
533	533	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
534	534	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
535	535	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
536	536	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
540	540	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rapporto	Rapporto	PROPN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	B	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
filiazione	filiazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparata	equiparare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
filiazione	filiazione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
filiazione	filiazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
544	544	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	appos
IX-BIS	IX-BIS	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	ADP	E	case
IL	IL	DET	RD	det
SENTIMENTO	SENTIMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PER	PER	PROPN	SP	case
GLI	GLI	DET	RD	det
ANIMALI	ANIMALI	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
544-bis	544-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uccisione	uccisione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
crudeltà	crudeltà	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
animale	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
544-ter	544-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Maltrattamento	Maltrattamento	PROPN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
crudeltà	crudeltà	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
animale	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sottopone	sottopone	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sevizie	sevizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatiche	fatica	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
insopportabili	insopportabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
etologiche	etologico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
somministra	somministrare	VERB	V	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	obl
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	compound
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vietate	vietato	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	RD	det
sottopone	sottoporre	NOUN	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procurano	procurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animale	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
544-quater	544-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spettacoli	Spettacoli	PROPN	SP	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	conj
vietati	vietare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportino	comportino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sevizie	sevizia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
strazio	strazio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scommesse	scommessa	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trarne	trarre ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	si	PRON	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animale	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
544-quinquies	544-quinquies	NUM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	conj
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
competizioni	competizione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
metterne	mettere ne	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	obj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
160.000	160.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promosse	promuovere	VERB	V	advcl
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
videoriproduzioni	videoriproduzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	ADJ	V	amod
scene	scena	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immagini	immagine	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competizioni	competizione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	ADJ	A	amod
cura	cura	NOUN	S	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripresa	ripresa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competizioni	competizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allevando	allevare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
addestrando	addestrare	VERB	V	conj
animali	animale	NOUN	S	obj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
destina	destinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietari	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
competizioni	competizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
consenzienti	consenzientare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
scommesse	scommettere	VERB	V	xcomp
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
combattimenti	combattimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competizioni	competizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
544-sexies	544-sexies	NUM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
544-ter	544-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
544-quater	544-quater	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
544-quinquies	544-quinquies	PROPN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animale	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
animali	animale	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesime	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
DECIMO	DECIMO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
INTEGRITÀ	INTEGRITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
SANITÀ	SANITÀ	PROPN	SP	conj
DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
STIRPE	STIRPE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	appos
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
MAGGIO	MAGGIO	NOUN	S	nmod
1978	1978	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	nmod
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
UNDECIMO	UNDECIMO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
FAMIGLIA	FAMIGLIA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
556	556	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Bigamia	Bigamia	NOUN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legato	legare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
contrae	contraere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contrae	contrae	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
matrimonio	matrimonio	ADJ	A	compound
con	con	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
legata	legare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
indotto	indurre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
contratto	contrarre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contratto	contratgere	VERB	V	acl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
bigamo	bigamo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
annullato	annullare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
bigamia	bigamia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux
concorsi	concorso	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
557	557	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sciolto	sciolre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
matrimoni	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
bigamia	bigamia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
558	558	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Induzione	induzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inganno	inganno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	obl
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
fraudolenti	fraudolento	NOUN	A	amod
occulta	occultare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
coniuge	coniugere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
quello	quello	PRON	PD	acl:relcl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
annullato	annullare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
occultato	occultato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duemila	duemila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
558-bis	558-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costrizione	costrizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
induzione	induzione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
minaccia	minacciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costringe	costringere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	xcomp
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
unione	unione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	S	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approfittando	approfittare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
inferiorità	inferiorità	NOUN	S	conj
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
domestiche	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavorative	lavorativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
induce	induce	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contrarre	contrarre	VERB	V	acl
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
unione	unione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
559	559	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Adulterio	Adulterio	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
adultera	adultero	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
correo	correo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adultera	adultera	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
adulterina	adulterino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marito	marito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
560	560	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Concubinato	Concubinato	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
marito	marito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
concubina	concubina	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
coniugale	coniugale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notoriamente	notoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
altrove	altrove	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
concubina	concubina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
561	561	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
559	559	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
marito	marito	NOUN	S	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
indotta	indotto	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccitata	eccitare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
tratto	trarre	VERB	V	conj
vantaggio	vantaggio	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prostituzione	prostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
ingiustamente	ingiustamente	NOUN	S	conj
abbandonato	abbandonato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
propria	proprio	DET	AP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	PI	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mutuo	mutuo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
562	562	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	NOUN	S	appos
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
556	556	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
560	560	NUM	N	conj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
maritale	maritale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
adulterio	adulterio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
concubinato	concubinato	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
offeso	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
offeso	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prole	prole	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tali	tale	DET	DD	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
eseguibili	eseguibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
563	563	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
559	559	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
560	560	NUM	N	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Estinguono	estinguono	VERB	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
offeso	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	NO	ROOT

l'	il	DET	RD	det
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevole	colpevole	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adulterio	adulterio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
concubinato	concubinato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
correo	correo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concubina	concubina	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorsa	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
564	564	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incesto	Incesto	PROPN	SP	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	amod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
scandalo	scandalo	NOUN	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commette	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
incesto	incesto	VERB	B	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
discendente	discendente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ascendente	ascendente	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
affine	affine	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sorella	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fratello	fratello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
incestuosa	incestuoso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incesto	incesto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
maggiorenne	maggiorenire	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
565	565	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attentati	attentato	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
morale	morale	NOUN	S	nmod
famigliare	famigliare	VERB	V	amod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
periodica	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cronaca	cronaca	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornali	giornale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	conj
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disegni	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserzioni	inserzione	NOUN	S	conj
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giornali	giornale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scritti	scritto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espone	espone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
tali	tale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
offendere	offendere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
morale	morale	NOUN	S	obj
famigliare	famigliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
566	566	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Supposizione	supposizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
figurare	figurare	VERB	V	ccomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	obj
inesistente	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	ROOT
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
neonato	neonato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	RD	iobj
sopprime	sopprime	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
567	567	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
neonato	neonato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
altera	alterare	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altera	alterare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
neonato	neonato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
568	568	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
depone	deporre	VERB	V	parataxis
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fanciullo	fanciullo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iscritto	iscritgere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nato	nascere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconosciuto	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ospizio	ospizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trovatelli	trovatello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beneficenza	beneficenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
occultandone	occultandone	NOUN	S	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
569	569	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pena	Pena	NOUN	S	appos
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
preveduti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
237	237	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
570	570	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
famigliare	famigliare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbandonando	abbandonare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
serbando	serbira	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	obj
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
morale	morale	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coniuge	coniuge	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
malversa	malversa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dilapida	dilapidare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pupillo	pupillo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	PD	csubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
inabili	inabile	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preveduto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
570-bis	570-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
570	570	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
viola	violare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
condiviso	condiviso	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
570-ter	570-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammonito	ammonire	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prova	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	ccomp
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
giustifica	giustificare	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ve	vi	PRON	PC	expl
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
settimana	settimana	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammonizione	ammonizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammonito	ammonire	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1994	1994	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
assenze	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ingiustificate	ingiustificato	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastico	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
elusione	elusione	NOUN	S	obj
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prova	provare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procurare	procurare	VERB	V	ccomp
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
giustifica	giustificare	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scuola	scuola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ve	vi	PRON	PC	expl
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
settimana	settimana	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammonizione	ammonizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
571	571	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abuso	abuso	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
abusa	abusare	VERB	V	parataxis
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
583	583	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
572	572	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Maltrattamenti	Maltrattamenti	PROPN	SP	appos
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conviventi	convivente	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maltratta	maltrattare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
convivente	convivente	NOUN	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
donna	donna	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravidanza	gravidanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2013	2013	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	obl
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2013	2013	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
gravissima	gravissimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	appos
da	da	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	ADV	B	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maltrattamenti	maltrattamente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
persona	persona	NOUN	S	xcomp
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
573	573	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	appos
consensuale	consensuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	parataxis
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuita	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aumentata	aumentato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
libidine	libidina	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
525	525	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
544	544	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
574	574	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
incapaci	incapace	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
infermo	infermo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
soggiace	soggiace	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	ROOT
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	xcomp
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
libidine	libidina	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
525	525	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
544	544	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
574-bis	574-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattenimento	trattenimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conducendolo	conducendolo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattenendolo	trattenendolo	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedendo	impedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
574-ter	574-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
matrimonio	matrimonio	ADJ	A	compound
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
considera	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
essa	esso	PRON	PE	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
DODICESIMO	DODICESIMO	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELITTI	DELITTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CONTRO	CONTRO	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
PERSONA	PERSONA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omicidio	Omicidio	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
cagiona	cagionare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ventuno	ventuno	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
646	646	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	parataxis
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ccomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-(con	-(con	PUNCT	E	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunta	aggiungere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	flat:name
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep