Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
avrà	avere	VERB	V	conj
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
cominciare	cominciare	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1942-XX	1942-XX	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Noi	Noi	PRON	PE	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrassegnato	contrassegnare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nostro	Nostro	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
Segretario	Segretario	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
servirà	servire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
custodito	custodire	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Archivio	Archivio	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguirà	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmetterne	trasmettere ne	VERB	V_PC	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	obj
stampato	stampare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sala	sala	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
esposto	esposto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ognuno	ognuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prenderne	prendere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ordiniamo	Ordiniamo	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserto	inserre	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mandando	mandare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
San	San	PROPN	SP	obl
Rossore	Rossore	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1940-XVIII	1940-XVIII	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
VITTORIO	VITTORIO	PROPN	SP	dep
EMANUELE	EMANUELE	PROPN	SP	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Mussolini	Mussolini	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Grandi	Grandi	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Grandi	Grandi	PROPN	SP	nsubj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrato	registrato	VERB	V	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1940-XVIII	1940-XVIII	NUM	N	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Atti	atti	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Governo	governo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
registro	registro	NOUN	S	appos
426	426	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	ROOT
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Mancini	Mancini	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
LIBRO	LIBRO	NOUN	S	nmod
PRIMO	PRIMO	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	DET	RD	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEGLI	DEGLI	PROPN	E_RD	case
ORGANI	ORGANI	PROPN	S	nmod
GIUDIZIARI	GIUDIZIARI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	Del	ADP	SP	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CODICE	CODICE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROCEDURA	PROCEDURA	PROPN	SP	nmod
CIVILE	CIVILE	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giurisdizione	Giurisdizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	det
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Momento	momento	PROPN	SP	ROOT
determinante	determinante	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
mutamenti	mutamente	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inderogabilità	Inderogabilità	NOUN	S	appos
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
derogata	derogare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	det
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
natanti	natante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superi	superare	VERB	S	advcl
venticinquemila	venticinquemila	ADV	B	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
432	432	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
534	534	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	VERB	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distanze	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
piantamento	piantamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alberi	albero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
siepi	siepe	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condominio	condominio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
case	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
proprietari	proprietario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
calore	calore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esalazioni	esalazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rumori	rumore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scuotimenti	scuotimente	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
simili	simile	ADJ	A	amod
propagazioni	propagazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
superino	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomale	nomale	ADJ	A	amod
tollerabilità	tollerabilità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
ritardato	ritardato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	obl
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
432	432	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	conj
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	obl
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	obl
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
534	534	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
onorifici	onorifice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminabile.(88	indeterminabile.(88	PROPN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sommano	sommare	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
scaduti	scaduto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
danni	danno	NOUN	S	conj
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sommano	sommare	VERB	V	conj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	cause	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	cause	NOUN	S	appos
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatori	obbligatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
locazioni	locazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
divisioni	divisione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	appos
353.(67	353.(67	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
attiva	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
dividersi	dividere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	cause	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
periodiche	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
controverso	controverso	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	obl
perpetue	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
controverso	controverso	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
cumulando	cumulare	VERB	V	advcl
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	obl
temporanee	temporanee	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vitalizie	vitalizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cumulando	cumulare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obj
domandate	domandare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	cause	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
danaro	danaro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
danaro	danaro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contestare	contestare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADP	E	mark
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presunto	presunto	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contesta	contestare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presunto	presunto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	ROOT
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	PROPN	SP	appos
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	ROOT
moltiplicando	moltiplicare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
dominicale	dominicale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terreno	terreno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	conj
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricato	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
duecento	duecento	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuda	nudo	NOUN	S	nmod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enfiteuta	enfiteuta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
servente	servente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servitù	servitù	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confini	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
desume	desumere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
controversa	controverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	obj
dominicale	dominicale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	conj
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
emerge	emergere	VERB	V	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
offrono	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stima	stima	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
indeterminabile	indeterminabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15-bis	15-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
60-bis	60-bis	NOUN	N	compound
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	cause	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
proposte	proposto	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
619	619	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
controversi	controvere si	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
sorte	sorgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
contestati	contestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sconosciuti	sconosciere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sconosciuta	sconosciuto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciute	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convenuta	convenire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciute	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comitati	comitato	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
continuativo	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
facoltativo	facoltativo	ADJ	V	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obj
dedotta	dedotre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
possessorie	possessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comodato	comodato	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
affitto	affitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distanze	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
piantamento	piantamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alberi	albero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
siepi	siepe	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
circoscrizioni	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziarie	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresa	comprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile.(88	immobile.(88	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
possessorie	possessorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	conj
temuto	temuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
denunciato	denunciato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditarie	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aperta	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
petizione	petizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
coeredi	coeredi	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rescissione	rescissione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legati	legare	VERB	VA	conj
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
proposte	proposta	NOUN	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecutore	esecutore	NOUN	S	obl
testamentario	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aperta	aperto	ADJ	A	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
suindicate	suindicato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
situati	situare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuti	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
condomini	condominio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
condomini	condominio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
condomini	condominio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condominio	condominio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condominio	condominio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
divisione	divisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestioni	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
tutelari	tutelaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
conferita	conferita	NOUN	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocatura	avvocatura	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
convenuta	convenire	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobile	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
autoveicoli	autoveicoli	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
motoveicoli	motoveicole	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimorchi	rimorco	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adempiuto	adempiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	PRON	PI	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
distretto	distretto	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espropriazione	espropriazione	NOUN	S	obl
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
144	144	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
615	615	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
619	619	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivi	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
derogata	derogare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possessori	possessore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inderogabilità	inderogabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	PROPN	SP	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riferirsi	riferire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	conj
determinati	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
eletto	eletto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	advcl
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convenuto	convenire	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
30-bis	30-bis	SYM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Foro	Foro	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parti	parte	NOUN	S	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
magistrati	magistrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	PROPN	SP	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservata	osservato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
ecceda	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
entrambe	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione.(88	riassunzione.(88	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cumulo	Cumulo	NOUN	S	appos
soggettivo	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
19	19	NUM	N	conj
dovrebbero	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamenti	Accertamenti	PROPN	SP	appos
incidentali	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
esplicita	esplicito	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	csubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Eccezione	Eccezione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
opposto	opposto	ADJ	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestato	contestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
controverso	controverso	ADJ	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
accertabile	accertabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimettere	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinando	subordinando	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	CCONJ	CC	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	NOUN	S	appos
riconvenzionali	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
riconvenzionali	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
dedotto	dedotto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedano	eccedare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
litispendenza	litispendenza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
denunciare	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incompetenza	Incompetenza	PROPN	SP	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritienere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
aderiscono	aderisce	VERB	V	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riassunta	riassungere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevate	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
decise	decidere	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Litispendenza	Litispendenza	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continenza	continenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
litispendenza	litispendenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
continenza	continenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
continenza	continenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
continenza	continenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Connessione	Connessione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esauriente	esauriente	ADJ	A	amod
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
34	34	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cumulativamente	cumulativamente	ADJ	S	case
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decise	decidere	VERB	V	conj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
rientri	rientro	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
442	442	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
34	34	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsto	prevedere	NOUN	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decise	decidere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	Qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettate	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
riti	rito	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod

debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattate	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decise	decidere	VERB	V	conj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
subordine	subordina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattata	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	acl
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
426	426	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
427	427	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
439	439	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
connessa	connettere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
34	34	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinchè	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo.(88)(90	processo.(88)(90	NOUN	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
connesse	connesso	ADJ	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunziare	pronunziare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88)(90	88)(90	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67)(72	67)(72	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Finchè	Finchè	ADV	B	nsubj:pass
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risolvano	risolvare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
367	367	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affermata	affermare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	appos
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunciando	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
40	40	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnati	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67)(72	67)(72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	appos
facoltativo	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
col	con il	DET	E_RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
impugnato	impugnato	VERB	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
impugna	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
toglie	togliere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
riprendono	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	SP	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regola	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Efficacia	Efficacia	NOUN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
40	40	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
incontestabile	incontestabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
dichiarata	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riassunta	riassungere	VERB	V	ccomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riassunta	riassungere	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
inapplicabilità	inapplicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
43	43	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
conciliatori	conciliatore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
aderito	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adesione	adesione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso.(6	ricorso.(6	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
propone	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
difensive	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
innanzi	innanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
pende	pendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
statuisce	statuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimette	rimette	ADV	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
provvedano	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
continua	continuare	VERB	V	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADV	E	mark
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50-bis	50-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	PROPN	S	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	A	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
tardive	tardivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1942	1942	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
disciplinanti	disciplinante	ADJ	A	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obj
coatta	coatto	ADJ	V	amod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
devolute	devolere	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
omologazione	omologazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concordato	concordato	NOUN	S	nmod
fallimentare	fallimentare	VERB	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concordato	concordato	NOUN	S	conj
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	obl
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
COME	cOME	ADP	E	case
MODIFICATO	MODIFICATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
COME	cOME	ADP	E	case
MODIFICATO	MODIFICATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
737	737	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88)(90	88)(90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	ROOT
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cause	Cause	PROPN	S	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
50-bis	50-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
monocratica.(88	monocratica.(88	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
50-quater	50-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50-bis	50-bis	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
50-ter	50-ter	PROPN	SP	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma.(88	comma.(88	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
vertente	vertente	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
identica	identico	ADJ	A	amod
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parente	parente	ADJ	A	advcl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legato	legare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
affiliazione	affiliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
convivente	convivente	NOUN	B	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commensale	commensale	ADJ	A	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
inimicizia	inimicizia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
debito	debire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	conj
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deposto	deporre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	conj
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADP	E	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
amministratore	amministratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gerente	gerente	ADV	B	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87)(92	87)(92	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporne	propore ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusante	ricusante	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
noto	noto	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trattare	trattare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	appos
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte.(88	corte.(88	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	parataxis
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
udito	udire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assunte	assure	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
offerte	offerto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	SP	appos
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
designa	designare	VERB	V	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
documenta	documentare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
stende	stendere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
appone	apponere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
attende	attendere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	cc
autentici	autentico	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
incombenze	incombenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58-bis	58-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
corti	corto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
spoglio	spoglio	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Procura	Procura	PROPN	SP	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
operano	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ordini	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attende	attendere	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
incombenze	incombenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
civilmente	civilmenta	VERB	A	ROOT
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricusano	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
omettono	omettire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compierli	compiere li	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
delegati	delegare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	appos
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
normalmente	normalmente	ADV	B	advmod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
compie	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornisce	fornire	VERB	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
441	441	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
463	463	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obbligo	obbligo	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
scelto	scegliere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
albo	albo	PROPN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
riconosca	riconore	VERB	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti.(2	periti.(2	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
incorre	incorre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
causati	causare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custode	Custode	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
pignorati	pignorato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nominato.(88	nominato.(88	X	PC	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederlo	chiedere lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
giusti	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
comma.(88	comma.(88	PROPN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	amod
assunto	assunto	ADJ	A	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquemila.(2	cinquemila.(2	PROPN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
cagionati	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
padre	padre	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altri	altro	ADJ	A	ROOT
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	conj
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
arte	arte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinati	determinato	DET	DI	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEL	DEL	ADP	E_RD	case
PUBBLICO	PUBBLICO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
MINISTERO	MINISTERO	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Azione	azione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevabile	rilevabile	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
matrimoniali	matrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
riguardanti	riguardante	ADJ	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emessi	emesso	VERB	V	acl:relcl
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	X	FC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1973	1973	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	obl
533	533	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
infine	infine	ADV	B	advmod
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ravvisi	ravvidere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Poteri	Poteri	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
competono	competere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dedurre	dedurre	VERB	V	conj
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
matrimoniali	matrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiarino	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
matrimoniali	matrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevedute	prevedere	VERB	E_RD	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
tanto	tanto	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunziato	pronunziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
397	397	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intervengono	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLE	DELLE	PROPN	SP	case
PARTI	PARTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	conj
DIFENSORI	DIFENSORI	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	appos
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
capaci	capace	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rappresentate	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistite	assistire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
stanno	stare	AUX	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
le	lo	PRON	PC	obj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
statuto	statuto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
comitati	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
persone	persona	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stanno	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Famiglia	Famiglia	NOUN	S	appos
Reale	Reale	PROPN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Re	Re	PROPN	SP	obl
Imperatore	imperatore	NOUN	S	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regina	Regina	PROPN	SP	obl
Imperatrice	Imperatrice	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Principi	principe	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Casa	Casa	PROPN	SP	nmod
Reale	Reale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Real	Real	ADJ	NO	nmod
Casa	casa	NOUN	S	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rappresentanza	Rappresentanza	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
institore	institore	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
determinati	determinato	DET	DI	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
preponente	preponente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nsubj
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
institore	institore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Curatore	curatore	PROPN	SP	appos
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
rappresenti	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assista	assista	VERB	V	conj
finchè	finchè	DET	DI	det
subentri	subentro	NOUN	S	obl
colui	colui	PRON	PD	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentato	rappresentato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istanza	Istanza	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
chiesta	chiesta	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentata	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistita	assistire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sebbene	sebbene	CCONJ	CS	mark
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
chiesta	chiesta	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conciliatore	conciliatore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
s'	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88)(90	88)(90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	conj
possibilmente	possibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
provochi	provoco	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	appos
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Patrocinio	Patrocinio	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzarla	autorizzare la	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvi	salvo	PROPN	SP	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
albo.(72)(88)(90	albo.(72)(88)(90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procura	Procura	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liti	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
sta	stare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munito	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liti	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
generale	generale	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precetto	precetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autografia	autografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	obl
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
però	però	ADV	B	advmod
congiunto	congiunto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
materialmente	materialmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
separato	separare	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	Procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liti	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obl
cartaceo	cartaceo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.(85	.(85	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	parataxis
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	xcomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressa	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Poteri	Poteri	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
sta	stare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
riservati	riservato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importano	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contesa	contesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
rinunciarvi	rinunciare vi	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
finchè	finchè	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	appos
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
adito	adito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dovere	dovere	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
lealtà	lealtà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
probità	probità	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comportarsi	comportare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lealtà	lealtà	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
probità	probità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Espressioni	Espressioni	NOUN	S	appos
sconvenienti	sconveniente	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
offensive	offensivo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	obl
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
discorsi	discorso	NOUN	S	conj
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
usare	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	obj
sconvenienti	sconveniente	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
offensive	offensivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
cancellino	cancellare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sconvenienti	sconveniente	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
offensive	offensivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	ADJ	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
sofferto	sofferto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	nsubj
offensive	offensivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
danni	danno	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiude	chiudere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
conciliativa	conciliativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
maturate	maturare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
formulazione	formulazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidate	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precetto	precetto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidate	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
notificata	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
reclami	reclamo	NOUN	S	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazioni	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisi	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
288	288	NUM	N	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	conj
liquidati	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
escludere	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vincitrice	vincitrice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	NOUN	V	advcl
eccessive	eccessivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superflue	superfluo	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccombenza	soccombenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ripetibili	ripetibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
causato	causare	VERB	V	ccomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	expl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
soccombenza	soccombenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
novità	novità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
trattata	trattare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisprudenza	giurisprudenza	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
dirimenti	dirimento	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conciliate	conciliare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
compensate	compensare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
convenuto	convenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Distrazione	distrazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distragga	distragga	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riscossi	riscossi	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
anticipate	anticipare	VERB	V	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Finchè	Finchè	PROPN	SP	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	PI	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soddisfatto	soddisfare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
onorari	onorario	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
curatori	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
beneficiati	beneficiato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
tutori	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
curatori	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistono	assistere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannati	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
specificare	specificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentata	rappresentato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistita	assistire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spese	Spese	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
intervenuti	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utilmente	utilmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
subito	subire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
aggravata	aggravato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
resistito	resistire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mala	malo	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inesistenza	inesistenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trascritta	trascritto	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
iscritta	iscrittare	VERB	V	conj
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
danneggiata	danneggiato	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agito	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
prudenza	prudenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
equitativamente	equitativamente	ADJ	A	amod
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
97	97	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soccombenti	soccombente	ADJ	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soccombenti	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proporzione	proporzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivo	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
solidale	solidale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
statuisce	statuire	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
uguali	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pretore	pretore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
conciliatore	conciliatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
presti	presta	NOUN	S	obl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	ccomp
timore	timore	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
restare	restare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ineseguita	ineseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8)	8)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
vuole	volere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interesse	Interesse	NOUN	S	appos
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agire	agire	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
contradire	contradire	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
avervi	avervi	ADJ	A	csubj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
statuire	statuire	VERB	V	conj
sopra	sopra	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
citata	citare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comparsa	comparsa	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerta	accertare	ADJ	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivare	ADJ	A	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lesione	lesione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Litisconsorzio	Litisconsorzio	PROPN	SP	appos
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciarsi	pronunciare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convenute	convenere	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promosso	promuovere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contradittorio	contradittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	ADV	B	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGGIORNAMENTO	AGGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
Costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
1a	1a	VERB	V	case
s.s	s.s	PROPN	SP	obj
.	.	NOUN	S	ROOT

15/02/2006	15/02/2006	NUM	N	nummod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illegittimità	illegittimità	NOUN	S	obj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
combinato	combinato	NOUN	S	nmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
102	102	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
litisconsorzio	litisconsorzio	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	xcomp
improduttiva	improduttivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
derogabile	derogabile	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
litisconsorti	litisconsorto	NOUN	S	nmod
convenuti	convenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Litisconsorzio	Litisconsorzio	PROPN	SP	appos
facoltativo	facoltativo	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Più	Più	DET	DI	advmod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
agire	agire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convenute	convenere	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esiste	esistere	VERB	A	advcl
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totalmente	totalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
identiche	identico	ADJ	A	amod
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
ritarderebbe	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
renderebbe	rendere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravoso	gravoso	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rimettere	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pluralità	Pluralità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	parataxis
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
connesse	connesso	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservata	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	appos
volontario	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
dedotto	dedotto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
sostenere	sostenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	PC	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	appos
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
pretende	pretende	NOUN	S	conj
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
garantita	garantire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
comune	comune	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estromissione	Estromissione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garantito	garantito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
garante	garante	NOUN	S	nsubj
comparisce	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garantito	garantito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
oppongano	oppongare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
estromissione	estromissione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
spiega	spiegare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estromesso	estromesso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
109	109	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estromissione	Estromissione	PROPN	SP	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
contende	contendere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
pronto	pronto	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguirla	eseguire la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
estromettere	estromettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Successione	Successione	NOUN	S	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
vien	vienre	VERB	V	ROOT
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proseguito	proseguire	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
successore	successore	NOUN	S	obl
universale	universale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Successione	Successione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
controverso	controverso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
controverso	controverso	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
vivi	vivo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
originarie	originario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proseguito	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
successore	successore	NOUN	S	obl
universale	universale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
successore	successore	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alienante	alienante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
successore	successore	NOUN	S	conj
universale	universale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux:pass
estromesso	estromettere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
spiega	spiegare	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successore	successore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mobili	mobile	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	case
POTERI	POTERI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
GIUDICE	GIUDICE	PROPN	SP	flat:name


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Corrispondenza	Corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
chiesto	chiesto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pronunciato	pronunciato	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
seguire	seguire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
attribuisca	attribuiscare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
duemilacinquecento	duemilacinquecento	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1342	1342	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile.(107	civile.(107	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
60-bis	60-bis	NOUN	N	nummod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
equità	equità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
equità	equità	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
queste	questo	PRON	PD	conj
gliene	gliena	NOUN	BN	advmod
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
concorde	concorde	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvi	Salvi	PROPN	A	discourse
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
porre	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
specificatamente	specificatamente	ADV	B	advmod
contestati	contestare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
costituita	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
porre	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
nozioni	nozione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
esperienza	esperienza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prudente	prudente	ADJ	A	amod
apprezzamento	apprezzamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
desumere	desumere	VERB	V	ROOT
argomenti	argomento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	gli	PRON	PC	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
ingiustificato	ingiustificare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contegno	contegno	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interrogatorio	Interrogatorio	NOUN	S	appos
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
interrogarle	interrogare le	VERB	V_PC	advcl
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appaiano	appaiare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiersi	compiere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
costringerli	costringere li	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
violare	violare	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
351	351	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
352	352	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
desumere	desumere	VERB	V	conj
argomenti	argomento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	RD	det
condanna	condanna	VERB	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
duemila.(2	duemila.(2	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Imposizione	Imposizione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
impone	imporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestarla	prestare la	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblicità	Pubblicità	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
contribuire	contribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
riparare	riparare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	ADJ	A	acl
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinarla	ordinare la	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccombente	soccombente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserzione	inserzione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advmod
indicate	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
testate	testato	NOUN	A	obl
giornalistiche	giornalistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
radiofoniche	radiofonica	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
televisive	televisivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
siti	sito	NOUN	S	conj
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserzione	inserzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedervi	procedere vi	VERB	V_B	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ripetere	ripetere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEGLI	DEGLI	PROPN	V	case
ATTI	ATTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
PROCESSUALI	PROCESSUALI	PROPN	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Degli	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	ADJ	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Libertà	Libertà	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiarezza	chiarezza	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sinteticità	sinteticità	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
determinate	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sintetico	sintetico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Uso	uso	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nomina	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presta	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
fedelmente	fedelmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
65	65	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
123	123	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nomina	nominare	VERB	V	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scritti	scrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
presta	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interrogazione	interrogazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
muto	muto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
muto	muto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
interrogazioni	interrogazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
presta	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	Contenuto	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
precetto	precetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tanto	tanto	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	ADJ	S	obl
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritti	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sta	stare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	ADJ	A	obl
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentata	rappresentato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
126	126	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
intervenute	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	dep
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
documenta	documentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	conj
fatte	fatto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
ricevute	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	advcl
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intervenuti	intervenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	direggere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	conj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenga	avvenire	ADJ	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
ordinato	ordinato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proficuo	proficuo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regola	regolare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
punti	punto	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	A	conj
chiusa	chiudere	ADJ	A	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127-bis	127-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
127-ter	127-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127-bis	127-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Udienza	Udienza	NOUN	S	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamenti	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivi	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituita	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	conj
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abbreviati	abbreviare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127-ter	127-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
fissata	fissare	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
sole	solo	ADJ	A	amod
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	amod
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	advcl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disposta	disposto	ADJ	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituita	costituito	VERB	V	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporsi	opporre si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abbreviati	abbreviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
note	nota	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
note	noto	NOUN	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	conj
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
note	nota	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compare	comparire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
data	dare	VERB	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
letto	leggere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Udienza	Udienza	NOUN	SP	appos
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
discute	discutere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
porte	porta	NOUN	S	obl
chiuse	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127-ter	127-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
opponga	oppongare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decoro	decoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
allontanare	allontanare	VERB	V	conj
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obj
contravviene	contravvenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Doveri	Doveri	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
portare	portare	VERB	V	conj
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bastoni	bastone	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
scoperto	scoperto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
silenzio	silenzio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
fare	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
disapprovazione	disapprovazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cagionare	cagionare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
disturbo	disturbo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
presiede	presiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
quali	quale	DET	DQ	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	compound
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dati	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
collegiali	collegiali	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compilato	compilare	VERB	V	ROOT
sommario	sommario	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
processo	processo	NOUN	S	compound
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unanimità	unanimità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dissenso	dissenso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
succintamente	succintamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
qualcuno	qualcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicarsi	indicare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nominativamente	nominativamento	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
decise	deciso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	obl:agent
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
togati	togato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservato	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	nmod
sigillato	sigillare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------------	-------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	parataxis
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Re	Re	PROPN	SP	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Albania	Albania	PROPN	SP	conj
Imperatore	imperatore	NOUN	S	flat:name
d'	di	ADP	E	case
Etiopia	Etiopia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
concisa	conciso	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
estensore	estensore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
menzionato	menzionare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
estensore	estensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
menzionato	menzionare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	xcomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	Forma	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
succintamente	succintamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
redatta	redavere	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
prescriva	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	Forma	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	advcl
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
datato	datare	ADJ	A	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comunicazioni	Comunicazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quei	quello	DET	DD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	Salvo	ADV	A	discourse
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esito	esito	VERB	V	conj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esito	esito	VERB	V	conj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
portale	portale	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
gestito	gestire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
149-bis	149-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nsubj
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificarsi	notificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possiede	possedere	VERB	V	conj
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
cartaceo	cartaceo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
invia	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
esazione	esazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riscrivibile	riscrivibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sigillare	sigillare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
trascrive	trascriva	NOUN	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
cronologico	cronologico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	conj
atto	atto	NOUN	S	compound
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	ROOT
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
desumersi	desumere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
biglietto	biglietto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
136	136	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirla	eseguire la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	acl
qualificato	qualificare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiari	dichiarare	ADJ	A	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabili	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	nmod
proprie	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ovunque	ovunque	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	conj
fatta	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	ADJ	AP	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricercandolo	ricercandolo	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
industria	industria	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trovato	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
addetta	addettare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
palesemente	palesemente	ADV	B	advmod
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabile	stabile	ADJ	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vicino	vicino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accetti	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riceverla	ricevere la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vicino	vicino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificando	specificira	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
raccomandata	raccomandato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
vive	vivere	VERB	V	ROOT
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
mercantile	mercantile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnato	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitano	capitano	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
noto	noto	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ignota	ignoto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
ò	ò	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Irreperibilità	Irreperibilità	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuto	rifiuto	ADJ	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affigge	affiggere	VERB	V	advcl
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	nmod
chiusa	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigillata	sigillare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
porta	porta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gliene	glenire	VERB	V_PC_PC	conj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
morto	morire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cessato	cessare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
142	142	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimorante	dimorante	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
domiciliata	domiciliare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	discourse
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cura	curare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretta	diretto	VERB	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
75	75	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PUNCT	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
sconosciuti	sconosciere	ADJ	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ignota	ignoto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
noti	noto	ADJ	A	advcl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ventesimo	ventesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prescritte.(70	prescritte.(70	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prescrivono	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocatura	avvocatura	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
destinataria	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	Esse	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
145	145	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
incaricata	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
addetta	addettare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabile	stabile	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
138	138	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
139	139	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
141	141	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	conj
specificati	specificare	VERB	V	advcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciute	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comitati	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	conj
specificati	specificare	VERB	V	advcl
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
143	143	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
146	146	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
militare	militare	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cura	curare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comandante	comandante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
militare	militare	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
21.(116)(143)(158	21.(116)(143)(158	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	ADJ	A	amod
posta	posta	ADJ	A	amod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	VERB	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
orari	orario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
perfezionate	perfezionare	VERB	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
notificante	notificante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
generata	generare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
generata	generare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
generata	generare	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mattino	mattino	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
perfezionata	perfezionare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
certifica	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eseguita	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
datata	datato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscritta	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
anagrafiche	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
raccolte	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reperibilità	reperibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	xcomp
divieto	divieto	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
scrive	scrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendovi	facere vi	VERB	V	advcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
spedisce	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	mark
piego	piego	NOUN	VA	aux
raccomandato	raccomandare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
perfeziona	perfezionare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
notificante	notificante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
proclami	proclama	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sommamente	sommamente	ADV	B	advmod
difficile	difficile	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
identificarli	identificare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
proclami.(88	proclami.(88	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
steso	stendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificarsi	notificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designati	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appaiono	apparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
portare	portare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
interessati	interessato	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Foglio	Foglio	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
annunzi	annunzi	NOUN	S	amod
legali	legale	ADJ	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
risiedono	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
presume	presumere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
risieda	risiedere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
giustificativi	giustificativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
conciliatore	conciliatore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forme	forme	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinate	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
steso	stendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
telegramma	telegramma	NOUN	S	nmod
collazionato	collazionato	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consigliano	consigliare	VERB	V	advcl
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
celerità	celerità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	obl
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
permette	permettere	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ordinatori	ordinatore	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
dichiari	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
153	153	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Improrogabilità	Improrogabilità	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abbreviati	abbreviare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nemmeno	nemmeno	ADV	BN	advmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incorsa	incorsa	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prorogabilità	prorogabilità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinatorio	ordinatorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
abbreviare	abbreviare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prorogare	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Computo	computo	PROPN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
escludono	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
iniziali	iniziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
festivi	festivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
festivo	festivo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogata	prorogare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
festivo	festivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
svolti	svolto	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
scadono	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sabato.(116	sabato.(116	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Resta	restare	NOUN	V	nsubj:pass
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sabato	sabato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comminata	comminare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
formali	formale	ADJ	A	amod
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
raggiunto	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rilevabilità	rilevabilità	NOUN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanatoria	sanatorio	ADJ	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciarsi	pronunciare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporre	opporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
opposta	opposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tacitamente	tacitamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
158	158	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	appos
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
insanabile	insanabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colpisce	colpire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
vizio	vizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	obj
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
157	157	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	conj
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	Pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	conj
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
causati	causare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
LIBRO	LIBRO	NOUN	S	obl
SECONDO	SECONDO	ADJ	NO	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEL	DEL	ADP	SP	case
PROCESSO	PROCESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DI	DI	ADP	E	mark
COGNIZIONE	COGNIZIONE	DET	V_PC	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	DET	RD	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEL	DEL	ADP	E_RD	case
PROCEDIMENTO	PROCEDIMENTO	PROPN	SP	obl
DAVANTI	DAVANTI	PROPN	SP	punct
AL	ALe	DET	E_RD	det
TRIBUNALE	tRIBUNALE	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settimana	settimana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	PRON	NO	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	appos
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
assistono	assistere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenuto	convenuto	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	appos
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3°	3°	ADJ	NO	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5°	5°	NOUN	NO	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6°	6°	NUM	NO	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
settanta	settanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
168-bis	168-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
implica	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
167	167	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendone	sussistendone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnato	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
163-bis	163-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrera	VERB	V	ROOT
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
centocinquanta	centocinquanta	NUM	N	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero.(67)(72)(116)(171)(173	estero.(67)(72)(116)(171)(173	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	punct

D.LGS	D.LGS	ADV	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
COME	cOME	ADP	E	case
MODIFICATO	MODIFICATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ecceda	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obj
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituendosi	costituere si	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
osservata	osservare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
anticipo	anticipo	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171)(173	171)(173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerto	incerto	ADJ	A	xcomp
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
sana	sana	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
i	il	DET	RD	det
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
producono	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conventuo	conventuo	NOUN	S	nmod
sana	sano	ADJ	A	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
restano	restare	VERB	V	conj
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deduce	dedurre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerto	incerto	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rinnovare	rinnovare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
maturate	maturato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
quesiti	quesito	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113a	113a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
115)(116	115)(116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67)(72	67)(72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
iscrivendo	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
offerti	offerti	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
settanta	settanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
notificata	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
prendendo	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
A	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
riconvenzionali	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevabili	rilevabile	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerto	incerto	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
integrarla	integrare la	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
maturate	maturato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113a	113a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Iscrizione	Iscrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscrive	iscrivo	ADJ	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
forma	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricevute	ricevuta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nmod
unificato	unificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
pronunciate	pronunciato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
168-bis	168-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Formato	Formato	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
indugio	indugio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
designa	designare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
creda	credere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
egli	egli	PRON	PE	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
divisi	dividere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diligente	diligente	ADV	B	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
iscrive	iscrivo	ADJ	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designato	VERB	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	parataxis
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
rimandata	rimandare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
169	169	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ritiro	Ritiro	PROPN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritirare	ritirare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
cartaceo	cartaceore	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	dep
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositare	NOUN	S	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ciascuna	Ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritirare	ritirare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
cartaceo	cartaceo	ADJ	A	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
restituirlo	restituire lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
tardi	tardi	ADV	B	fixed
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionale	conclusionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
costituito	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
eletto	eleggere	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
consentite	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
149-bis	149-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disciplinanti	disciplinante	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	conj
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ritardata	Ritardata	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	obl
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
restano	restare	VERB	V	conj
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Verifiche	Verifiche	ADJ	A	ROOT
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Scaduto	Scaduto	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	xcomp
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
107	107	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
164	164	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
167	167	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
182	182	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
269	269	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
271	271	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
291	291	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
292	292	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinquantacinque	cinquantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	amod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	csubj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
differisce	differire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
rilevabili	rilevabile	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportuna	opportuna	NOUN	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-decies	281-decies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-duodecies	281-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
iniziano	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Memorie	Memorie	NOUN	S	ROOT
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
proposte	proposto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	amod
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
replicare	replicare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
formulate	formulata	NOUN	S	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
produzioni	produzione	NOUN	S	obj
documentali	documentale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
replicare	replicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
174	174	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Immutabilità	Immutabilità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
investito	investire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluto	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
sollecito	sollecito	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
leale	leale	ADJ	A	conj
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
omesso	omedere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
289	289	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
ritengono	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conosciute	conoscere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
dovevano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comparirvi	comparire vi	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetto	Effetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
motivate	motivare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
pregiudicare	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
modificabili	modificabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunziate	pronunziato	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2°	2°	PRON	NO	nsubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
predisponga	predisponga	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4°	4°	ADJ	NO	amod
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	ROOT
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Controllo	Controllo	PROPN	SP	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
risolute	risolere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
revocabile	revocabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
operi	opere	ADJ	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
immediato	immediare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	A	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	A	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiedano	richiedare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
replica	replica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Scaduti	Scaduti	DET	S	advcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	flat:name
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanze	ordinanze	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condanne	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addebito	addebito	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reclamo	reclamo	VERB	S	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
giustificazioni	giustificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
addotte	addotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
orale	orale	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	xcomp
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113a	113a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113a	113a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	Il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl
14	14	NUM	N	flat:name
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	parataxis
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	X	X	discourse
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	discourse
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
pendenti	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	DET	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituito	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comparisce	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comparisce	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
182	182	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	ROOT
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	compound
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
completare	completare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
difettosi	difettoso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	Procura	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	Procura	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liti	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
sana	sanare	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
vizi	vizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostanziali	sostanziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fin	fino	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	ROOT
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
valutabile	valutabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salva	Salva	PROPN	SP	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
interroga	interrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiedendo	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenta	tentare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
predispone	predispone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
inclusa	inclusa	NOUN	V	nmod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incombenti	incombente	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
verranno	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espletati	espletare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanata	emanare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
mezzi	mezzo	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dedurre	dedurre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
replica	replica	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
183-bis	183-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183-ter	183-ter	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provati	provare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
appaiono	apparire	VERB	V	conj
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADV	B	advmod
infondate	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pluralità	pluralità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tali	ADJ	A	amod
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
reclamabile	reclamabile	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
669-terdecies	669-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2909	2909	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invocata	invocare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reclamata	reclamare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
respinto	respinto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ulteriormente	ulteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	conj
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
reclamata	reclamato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	compound


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
183-quater	183-quater	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	advcl
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
incerto	incerto	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sanata	sanare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persiste	persistere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pluralità	pluralità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tali	ADJ	DD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
reclamabile	reclamabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
669-terdecies	669-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2909	2909	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invocata	invocare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reclamata	reclamare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinto	respinto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ulteriormente	ulteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
reclamata	reclamato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184-bis	184-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ll	Ll	PROPN	SP	nmod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	V	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesima	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
interrogarle	interrogare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provocarne	provocare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conciliare	conciliare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
transigere	transigere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovato	rinnovare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conciliate	conciliare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
forma	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusa	concluso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
185-bis	185-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formula	formulare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
facile	facile	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pronta	pronto	ADJ	A	det
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	appos
transattiva	transattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conciliativa	conciliativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riservarsi	riservare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
pronunciarli	pronunciare li	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
186-bis	186-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	PROPN	SP	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contestate	contestato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contestate	contestare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
186-ter	186-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istanza	Istanza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
634	634	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	A	obl
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
641	641	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
642	642	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimasta	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
648	648	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
provvisoria	provvisorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
esecutorietà	esecutorietà	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disconosciuto	disconosciere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
lei	lei	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	conj
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
177	177	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
178	178	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
munita	munire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	xcomp
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
653	653	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingiunzione	ingiunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
644	644	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverrà	diverere	VERB	V	advcl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	S	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
647	647	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	A	acl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipoteca	ipoteca	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
186-quater	186-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	SP	appos
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Esaurita	Esaurita	NOUN	S	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
revocabile	revocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
intimata	intimato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
manifesta	manifesto	ADJ	A	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositato	depositare	VERB	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
matura	maturo	ADJ	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rimettere	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
definire	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
analogamente	analogamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	ccomp
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
188	188	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
istruttoria	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaurita	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
188	188	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
queste	questo	DET	DD	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
rinuncino	rinuncare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	amod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	A	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
replica	replica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
investe	inverre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
190-bis	190-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
191	191	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	VERB	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formula	formulare	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
consulenti	consulente	ADJ	A	xcomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
192	192	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Questi	Questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giuramento	Giuramento	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
ricorda	ricordare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fedelmente	fedelmente	ADV	B	advmod
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
affidategli	affidategli	VERB	V_PC	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assegnare	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	A	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitato	invitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
compie	compiere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
col	con il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
domandare	domandare	VERB	V	xcomp
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calchi	calco	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
compia	compia	VERB	V	ccomp
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Processo	processo	NOUN	S	appos
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
forma	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
rediga	rediga	PROPN	SP	ccomp
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
inserisce	inserire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ccomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
196	196	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esprimere	esprimere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiarire	chiarire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esame	Esame	NOUN	S	appos
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	csubj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidandogli	affidandogli	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compito	compito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
tentare	tentare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
sente	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbali	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
199	199	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Processo	processo	NOUN	S	appos
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
conciliano	conciliare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	xcomp
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	PROPN	SP	appos
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
espone	espone	VERB	S	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
compiute	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deposita	depositere	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riportate	riportare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	appos
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
chiarire	chiarire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tempo	Tempo	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumerli	assumere li	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
esaurisce	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
differisce	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	appos
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
assumersi	assumere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
delega	delegare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedervi	procedere vi	PROPN	SP	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	ADJ	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedano	richiedano	VERB	V	advcl
concordemente	concordemente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trasferisca	trasferire	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delega	delega	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
delegante	delegare	VERB	B	advmod
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
assumersi	assumere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
delegante	delegare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaurita	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rivolgere	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
delegante	delegare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
204	204	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rogatorie	Rogatorie	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
estere	estero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consoli	console	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
rogatorie	rogatoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
estere	estero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttori	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
rogatoria	rogatoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
delega	delega	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
console	console	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incidenti	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Processo	processo	NOUN	S	appos
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportate	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
lette	letto	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riportare	riportare	VERB	V	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
descrive	descrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contegno	contegno	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	appos
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
iniziarsi	iniziare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
preseguirsi	preseguire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiara	dichiara	NOUN	S	obj
decaduta	decaduto	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farla	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
chieda	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cagionata	cagionare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
209	209	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
chiusa	chiudere	ADJ	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ammessi	ammesso	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	conj
superflua	superfluo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
raggiunti	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
circa	circa	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
anticipata	anticipare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obl
desumere	desumere	VERB	V	conj
argomenti	argomento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	RD	det
condanna	condanna	VERB	S	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
211	211	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tutela	Tutela	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
cercare	cercare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conciliare	conciliare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
miglior	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intervenendo	intervenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnatogli	assegnatogli	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
212	212	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esibizione	Esibizione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libri	libro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esibisca	esibire	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
autentico	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
libri	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
estrarne	estrare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
partite	partita	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ccomp
estratti	estratto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
assista	assista	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
211	211	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	csubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
richieste	richiedere	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disconoscimento	disconoscimento	PROPN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Colui	Colui	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
disconoscerla	disconoscere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
negare	negare	VERB	V	xcomp
formalmente	formalmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
limitarsi	limitare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riconoscimento	riconoscimento	PROPN	S	appos
tacito	tacire	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
riconosciuta	riconosciuta	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
comparsa	comparso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
disconosce	disconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conoscerla	conoscere la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
deliberare	deliberare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
216	216	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Istanza	Istanza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
disconosciuta	disconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proponendo	proponere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
producendo	producere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avervi	avervi	VERB	A	xcomp
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
poste	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
217	217	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
istruttori	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	obj
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
provenienza	provenienzare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
autrice	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
218	218	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Scritture	Scritture	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
depositari	depositaro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
depositari	depositaro	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
asportazione	asportazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
compiersi	compiere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
219	219	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparazione	comparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
dettatura	dettatura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
invitata	invitare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	Pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mano	mano	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
negata	negare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquecento	cinquecento	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
tanto	tanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	ADV	PR	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finché	SCONJ	CS	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	PD	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
unirsi	unire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interpello	interpello	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
interpella	interpellare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
valersene	valersene	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
negativa	negativo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
utilizzabile	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
affermativa	affermativo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	NO	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
successiva	successiva	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Processo	processo	NOUN	S	appos
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
forma	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancellature	cancellatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abrasioni	abrasione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiunte	aggiunta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
interlineari	interlineare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
particolarità	particolarità	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riscontra	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	conj
appongono	appongere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinarne	ordinare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	PRON	PR	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
redige	redigere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
redige	redigere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sulla	Su il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	NO	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trattenere	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	ADV	CS	nmod
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
continui	continuare	VERB	V	ccomp
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
querelante	querelante	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
mille	mille	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accerta	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
537	537	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
227	227	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
passate	passare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccombente	soccombente	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
481	481	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	conj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
228	228	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	appos
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
spontanea	spontanea	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provocata	provocare	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
229	229	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	appos
spontanea	spontaneo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
confessione	confessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
spontanea	spontaneo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contenuta	contenuto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
firmato	firmare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dedotto	dedurre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
separati	separato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammette	ammette	NOUN	S	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
formulati	formulare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
concordano	concordare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
date	dato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Risposta	Risposta	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interrogata	interrogato	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servirsi	servire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	obl
preparati	preparato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consentirle	consentire le	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valersi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
appunti	appunte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cifre	cifra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consigliano	consigliare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
232	232	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	amod
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
dedotti	dedurre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
giustificata	giustificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
233	233	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deferimento	deferimento	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formulato	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
separati	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
234	234	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riferimento	Riferimento	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Finchè	Finchè	PROPN	SP	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
pronta	pronto	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
giurare	giurare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riferirlo	riferire lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avversario	avversario	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
235	235	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Irrevocabilità	Irrevocabilità	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
revocarlo	revocare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avversario	avversario	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
pronto	pronto	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestarlo	prestare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
236	236	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocabilità	revocabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammettere	ammettere	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
modifica	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obj
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
revocarlo	revocare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
237	237	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sorte	sorgere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
circa	circa	ADP	E	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prestazione	Prestazione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	DET	DD	obj
ammonisce	ammonire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giurante	giurante	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	nmod
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
morale	morale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
giurare	giurare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giurante	giurante	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
piedi	piede	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
voce	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
consapevole	consapevole	ADJ	A	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
assumo	assumo	NOUN	S	compound
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
Dio	dio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomini	uomo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giuro	giuro	NOUN	S	conj
....	....	PUNCT	FS	punct
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continua	continuare	VERB	V	conj
ripetendo	ripetere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formula	formula	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
giura	giurare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
239	239	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	PROPN	SP	appos
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comparendo	comparere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestarlo	prestare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avversario	avversario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soccombe	soccombe	VERB	V	advcl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
soccombe	soccombe	NOUN	S	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
avversaria	avversario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
giustificata	giustificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
232	232	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deferimento	deferimento	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
suppletorio	suppletorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
riservate	riservare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
suppletorio	suppletorio	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
estimazione	estimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
domandata	domandato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deferito	deferire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	csubj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj
avrà	avere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
242	242	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
suppletorio	suppletorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deferito	deferito	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
da	da	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	PD	obl
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	PRON	PI	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
243	243	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
deferito	deferito	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obl
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dedotta	dedurre	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
interrogare	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formulati	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
separati	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrogata	interrogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	obl
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	obl
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	punct
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
245	245	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
riduce	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
sovrabbondanti	sovrabbondante	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elimina	eliminare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
aderiscono	aderisce	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
246	246	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incapacità	Incapacità	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	mark
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
legittimare	legittimare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	mark
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
ancorché	ancorché	ADV	B	mark
separato	separare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affiliazione	affiliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
verta	verto	ADJ	V	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	conj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
248	248	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordico	NUM	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
249	249	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Facoltà	Facoltà	PROPN	SP	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	appos
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intima	intima	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	obl
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
posta	posta	NOUN	S	advcl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	obl
chiusa	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigillata	sigillare	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	ADJ	A	amod
posta	posta	ADJ	A	conj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deposita	depositere	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
inviato	inviato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giuramento	Giuramento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammonisce	ammonire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obl
religiosa	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
morale	morale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
false	falso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reticenti	reticente	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
legge	leggere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
consapevole	consapevole	ADJ	A	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obl
assumete	assumete	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
Dio	dio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomini	uomo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giurate	giurato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dire	dire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
null'	nu il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
piedi	piede	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presta	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
pronunciando	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
giuro	giuro	NOUN	S	ROOT
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
74	74	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
252	252	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Identificazione	Identificazione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
paternità	paternità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affiliazione	affiliazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attendibilità	attendibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
proposito	proposito	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Interrogazioni	Interrogazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
interroga	interrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
rivolgergli	rivolgergli	VERB	V_PC	det
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiarire	chiarire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
interrogare	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
254	254	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	advcl
divergenze	divergenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
deposizioni	deposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
255	255	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
intimato	intimare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
intimazione	intimazione	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
disporne	disporre ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
successiva	successivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannarlo	condannare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	parataxis
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	RD	det
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.(116	.(116	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esentato	esentare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
reca	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
situati	situare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delega	delega	VERB	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentandosi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
giurare	giurare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	conj
sospetto	sospetto	NOUN	S	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
detto	dire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
reticente	reticente	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
trasmette	trasmettere	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
257	257	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obj
superflua	superfluo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
245	245	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
interrogati	interrogare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiarire	chiarire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
correggere	correggere	VERB	V	conj
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obj
avveratesi	avveratendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
257-bis	257-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Testimonianza	Testimonianza	NOUN	S	appos
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	obj
chiedendo	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
fissato	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrogato	interrogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
predisponga	predisporre	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ammessi	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	conj
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	obj
compilando	compilare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
separata	separare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisa	precisare	VERB	V	conj
quali	quale	PRON	PR	dep
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicandone	indicandorre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoscrive	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	obj
apponendo	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facciate	facciata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apponendo	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
deposita	deposita	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
249	249	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compilare	compilare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
complete	completo	ADJ	A	amod
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trasmette	trasmette	ADJ	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

le	il	DET	RD	det
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannarlo	condannare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
255	255	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
risposte	risposta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
259	259	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
impediscano	impediscare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
allontanarsi	allontanare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
delega	delega	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ispezione	Ispezione	PROPN	SP	appos
corporale	corporale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
corporale	corporale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
corporale	corporale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedersi	procedere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cautela	cautela	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
261	261	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riproduzioni	riproduzione	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperimenti	esperimento	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calchi	calco	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fotografiche	fotografica	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	conj
cinematografiche	cinematografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	PRON	PI	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
meccanici	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Egualmente	Egualmente	ADV	B	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	dep
sia	essere	AUX	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essersi	essere si	AUX	VA_PC	aux
verificato	verificare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dato	dato	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendone	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	obj
fotografica	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinematografica	cinematografico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
presiede	presiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
affida	affidare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presta	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
262	262	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Poteri	Poteri	PROPN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sentire	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dare	dare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
località	località	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prendendo	prendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendimento	rendimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
giustificativi	giustificativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
264	264	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impugnazione	Impugnazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impugna	impugnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
specificare	specificare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
partite	partita	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
contestare	contestare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
specificazione	specificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concordano	concordare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravanzo	sopravanzo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
265	265	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giuramento	Giuramento	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ammettere	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendiconto	rendiconto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
rende	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
asseverare	asseverare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
partite	partita	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
suole	suole	VERB	V	conj
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	csubj
ricevuta	ricevuto	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ammetterle	ammettere le	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
verosimili	verosimile	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ragionevoli	ragionevole	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chierre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
separato	separato	NOUN	S	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
duplicazione	duplicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partite	partita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
§	§	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
interveniente	interveniente	ADJ	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obj
formata	formare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termine	Termine	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
comparisca	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiamata	Chiamata	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservati	osservare	VERB	V_PC	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163-bis	163-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intenda	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spostamento	spostamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163-bis	163-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ove	Ove	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	amod
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concede	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163-bis	163-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiama	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
preclusioni	preclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
maturate	maturare	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	conj
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chiamata	Chiamata	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
chiamato	chiamato	VERB	A	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
citato	citare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
167	167	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
poi	poi	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
269	269	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
272	272	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
col	con il	DET	E_RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

§	§	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
pendono	pende	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
pende	pendere	VERB	V	advcl
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinando	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
designando	designare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
connesse	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
pendono	pendono	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporne	dispore ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
connessa	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
pende	pendere	VERB	V	advcl
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	parataxis
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADP	E	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
274-bis	274-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rimessa	Rimessa	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ciascuna	ciascuna	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
discussa	discusdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	NOUN	S	nmod
comparse	comparso	VERB	V	acl
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
revocando	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
limitate	limitato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	obl
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concisa	conciso	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deliberata	deliberare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
gradatamente	gradatamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	A	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevabili	rilevabile	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presa	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
votare	votare	VERB	V	advcl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
infine	infine	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
prospettano	prospettano	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	DET	DI	det
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
forma	formare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggioranza	maggioranza	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
votazione	votazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
mette	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
escluderne	escludere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
mette	mettere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voti	voto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	PRON	PC	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
restante	restante	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
finchè	finchè	DET	CS	nsubj:pass
le	il	DET	RD	det
soluzioni	soluzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
votazione	votazione	NOUN	S	obj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiusa	Chiusa	NOUN	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
votazione	votazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
scrive	scrivere	VERB	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrive	sottoscrivere	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
stesa	stendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
creda	credere	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stenderla	stendere la	VERB	V_PC	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidarla	affidare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
277	277	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberare	deliberare	VERB	V	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definendo	definere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rimesso	rimettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	DET	DI	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ccomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sollecita	sollecita	NOUN	S	nsubj
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
apprezzabile	apprezzabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condanna	Condanna	PROPN	SP	appos
generica	generico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Provvisionale	Provvisionale	PROPN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
controversa	controverso	ADJ	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
limitarsi	limitare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obj
generica	generico	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
prosegua	proseguare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
provvisionale	provvisionale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
decide	decidere	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definisce	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impartisce	impartiscere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1°	1°	ADJ	NO	case
quando	quando	PRON	PR	obl
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2°	2°	NUM	NO	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
definisce	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	conj
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3°	3°	ADJ	NO	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
definisce	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
totalmente	totalmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

4°	4°	ADJ	NO	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impartisce	impartire	VERB	V	conj
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	advmod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5°	5°	ADV	B	ROOT

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valendosi	valere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
104	104	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quel	quello	DET	DD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
distinti	distinti	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
medesime	medesima	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dati	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mai	mai	ADV	B	advmod
pregiudicare	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
modificabili	modificabile	NOUN	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutive	esecutivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
concorde	concordo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ccomp
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
280	280	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	Contenuto	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplina	disciplinare	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PE	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
inserisce	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	case
da	da	ADP	E	case
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
investito	investire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
III-BIS	iII-BIS	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-bis	281-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Norme	norma	NOUN	S	appos
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capi	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-ter	281-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Poteri	Poteri	NOUN	S	ROOT
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
testimoniale	testimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
formulandone	formulandone	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appaiono	apparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-quater	281-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
decise	decidere	VERB	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
168-bis	168-bis	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-quinquies	281-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mista	misto	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
matura	maturo	ADJ	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
trattiene	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	nmod
difensivi	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-quinquies	281-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concisa	conciso	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
pubblicata	pubblicare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-septies	281-septies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	compound
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
decida	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
quale	quale	PRON	PR	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
281-octies	281-octies	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riservata	riservare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisa	decidere	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	conj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-nonies	281-nonies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Connessione	Connessione	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decise	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rimette	rimetta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
189	189	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	det:poss
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
restano	restare	VERB	V	conj
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
preclusioni	preclusione	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
maturate	maturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-decies	281-decies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
controversi	controvere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
documentale	documentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronta	pronto	ADJ	A	det
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
complessa	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotto	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificato	semplificato	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	ADJ	S	obl
cause	caudere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotto	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizioni	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
615	615	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617	617	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
645	645	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
281-undecies	281-undecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
implica	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendone	sussistendone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrera	VERB	V	ROOT
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
offre	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
riconvenzionali	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevabili	rilevabile	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spostamento	spostamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-duodecies	281-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-decies	281-decies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
171-ter	171-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
probatoria	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ccomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattata	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiamare	chiamare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-undecies	281-undecies	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
proposte	proposta	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concede	concedere	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
replicare	replicare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dedurre	dedurre	VERB	V	conj
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
matura	maturo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
281-terdecies	281-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
matura	maturo	ADJ	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
282	282	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	PROPN	SP	appos
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
283	283	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	appos
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appare	apparire	VERB	V	advcl
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
fondata	fondato	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreparabile	irreparabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
mutamenti	mutamente	NOUN	S	nsubj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	acl:relcl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	conj
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
revocabile	revocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avverato	avverare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
stare	stare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avverato	avverare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
revocabili	revocabile	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrette	corretre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
incorso	incorso	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
288	288	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
concordano	concordare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificarsi	notificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
col	con il	DET	E_RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	ccomp
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
corrette	corrette	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289	289	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Integrazione	Integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttori	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
istruttori	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrati	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contumacia	contumacio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contumacia	contumacia	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
contumacia	contumacia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proseguito	proseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellata	cancellare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contumacia	contumacia	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
vizio	vizio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importi	importare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rinnovarla	rinnovare la	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171-bis	171-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconvenzionali	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	A	amod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notificate	notificare	VERB	V	conj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notificate	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------------	---------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	xcomp
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disconoscere	disconoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
assegnatogli	assegnatogli	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------------	---------------------	PROPN	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimessione	Rimessione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
sarebbero	essere	AUX	V	cop
precluse	precluso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impedita	impedire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
verosimili	verosimile	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intende	intendere	VERB	S	nsubj:pass
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
difensive	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
matura	maturo	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
costituite	costituire	ADJ	V	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
VII	VII	ADJ	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	SP	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
istruttore	istruttore	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
giustificati	giustificato	NOUN	S	nsubj
motivi	motivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rimanga	rimanere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
297	297	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fissazione	Fissazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
298	298	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	ROOT
interrompe	interrompe	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricominciano	ricominciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sopravviene	sopravvieno	ADJ	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
stare	stare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrotre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proseguirlo	proseguire lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	advcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
citarli	citare li	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservati	osservare	VERB	V_PC	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163-bis	163-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contumace	contumace	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvera	avverare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrotre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obj
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrotre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dichiarata	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interruttivo	interruttivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
avvera	avverare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------------	---------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Morte	Morte	PROPN	SP	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
radiazione	radiazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cause	caudere	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notificando	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proseguirlo	proseguire lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impersonalmente	impersonalmente	ADV	B	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	advcl
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comparisce	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
contumacia	contumacia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
298	298	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
305	305	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	ADJ	A	appos
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proseguito	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interruzione	interruzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
306	306	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	appos
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratori	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
sottoscritti	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
regolari	regolare	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	parataxis
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rinunciante	rinunciante	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimborsare	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
inattività	inattività	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
siasi	siase	ADJ	A	amod
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riassunto	riassunto	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
166	166	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
siasi	siase	ADJ	A	amod
costituita	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordini	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rinnovare	rinnovare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	B	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fissarlo	fissare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
opera	opera	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	compound
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
308	308	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impugnabilità	impugnabilità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglie	accoglie	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mancata	Mancata	VERB	A	appos
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inefficaci	inefficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
compiuti	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pronunce	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
raccolte	raccolto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	amod
stanno	stare	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
anticipate	anticipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
DEL	DEL	ADP	SP	appos
PROCEDIMENTO	PROCEDIMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAVANTI	DAVANTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
AL	AL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
GIUDICE	GIUDICE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PACE	PACE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	DI	det
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolato	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
espresse	espressa	NOUN	S	conj
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
retto	reggere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
312	312	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
313	313	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Querela	querela	NOUN	PD	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
querela	querela	ADJ	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
impugnato	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
rilevante	rilevante	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
315	315	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	ccomp
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
317	317	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rappresentanza	Rappresentanza	NOUN	SP	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
munita	munire	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordini	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
transigere	transigere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conciliare	conciliare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-undecies	281-undecies	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
informa	informare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	Costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
implica	implicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
decadenze	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-undecies	281-undecies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
1.100	1.100	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendone	sussistendone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
281-undecies	281-undecies	NUM	N	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stanno	stare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
320	320	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
interroga	interrogare	NOUN	V	ROOT
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenta	tentare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	si	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	advcl
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-duodecies	281-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
matura	maturo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
321	321	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
matura	maturo	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
deposita	deposita	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
322	322	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenziosa	contenzioso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenziosa	contenzioso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capo	capo	NOUN	S	conj
I	primo	ADJ	NO	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenziosa	contenzioso	ADJ	A	amod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
323	323	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Mezzi	Mezzi	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	appos
giudicata	giudicare	VERB	V	acl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

S'	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
passata	passare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
404	404	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
sopra	sopra	ADV	E	advmod
menzionata	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corti	corto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
sessanta	sessangere	NUM	N	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	DET	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
326	326	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
perentori	perentore	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	amod
notificante	notificante	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
perfeziona	perfezionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
per	per	ADP	E	fixed
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
397	397	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
404	404	NUM	N	conj
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scoperto	scoprire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
collusione	collusione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
recuperato	recuperare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
passata	passare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	csubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soccombente	soccombente	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporla	propore la	VERB	V_PC	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
327	327	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	appos
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	obl
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questa	questo	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
contumace	contumace	ADJ	A	amod
dimostra	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
defunta	defunto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sopravviene	sopravviena	VERB	V	advcl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impersonalmente	impersonalmente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------------	---------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Acquiescenza	acquiescenza	NOUN	S	appos
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvi	salvo	PROPN	SP	ROOT

i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquiescenza	acquiescenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	obl
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proponibilità	proponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
acquiescenza	acquiescenza	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
indicato	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
notifica	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
costituito	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impersonalmente	impersonalmente	ADV	B	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
defunta	defuntare	VERB	V	xcomp
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
170	170	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
collettivamente	collettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impersonalmente	impersonalmente	ADV	B	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
costituito	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarata	dichiarare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
notifica	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contradittorio	contradittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
inscindibili	inscindibile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
inscindibile	inscindibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contradittorio	contradittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
scindibili	scindibile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
scindibili	scindibile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preclusa	precludere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	ROOT
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
327	327	NUM	N	conj
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
333	333	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impugnazioni	Impugnazioni	PROPN	SP	appos
incidentali	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
334	334	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impugnazioni	Impugnazione	PROPN	S	appos
incidentali	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
tardive	tardivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
integrare	integrare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
acquiescenza	acquiescenza	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibilo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
separate	separato	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	ADJ	A	amod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riunite	riunire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
336	336	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riforma	riforma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riforma	riforma	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	conj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
riformata	riformato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cassata	cassare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riforma	riforma	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	conj
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
riformata	riformato	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cassata	cassare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
337	337	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
283	283	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
401	401	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
407	407	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
invocata	invocare	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
338	338	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
passare	passare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
estinto	estinto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
339	339	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Appellabilità	appellabilità	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Possono	Potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
inappellabile	inappellabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
appellabili	appellabile	NOUN	S	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
340	340	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riserva	Riserva	PROPN	SP	appos
facoltativa	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differito	differire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
appellare	appellare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definisca	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
rimane	rimane	NOUN	V	xcomp
priva	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
341	341	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
342	342	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivato	motivare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
chiaro	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sintetico	sintetico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnato	impugnare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
censure	censura	NOUN	S	obj
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
denunciate	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
centocinquanta	centocinquanta	NUM	N	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
343	343	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modo	modo	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
344	344	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	Intervento	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
404	404	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
345	345	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Domande	domanda	NOUN	SP	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
proposte	proposta	NOUN	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibili	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
domandarsi	domandare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
frutti	frutto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
sofferti	soffergere	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevabili	rilevabile	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotti	produrre	NOUN	V	conj
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporli	propore li	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
produrli	produre li	VERB	V_PC	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
deferirsi	deferire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decadenza	Decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riproposte	ripropostere	ADJ	V	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accolte	accolgere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
riproposte	riproporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
rinunciate	rinunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forme	Forma	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
349-bis	349-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inserire	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
appellata	appellato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Improcedibilità	Improcedibilità	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	ADJ	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	ADJ	A	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
benchè	benchè	VERB	CS	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prossima	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
appellante	appellante	ADJ	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appellante	appellante	ADJ	A	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
reclamabile	reclamabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
308	308	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
348-bis	348-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inammissibilità	Inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	conj
infondatezza	infondatezzo	NOUN	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	conj
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
350-bis	350-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
348-ter	348-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
349	349	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
349-bis	349-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nomina	nominare	VERB	V	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designa	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	amod
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
differire	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	ROOT
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trattazione	Trattazione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattato	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
contumacia	contumacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appellato	appellato	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rinnovi	rinnovare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appelli	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
proposti	proposre	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
348-bis	348-bis	ADJ	A	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nsubj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
350-bis	350-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
appare	apparire	VERB	V	advcl
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
fondata	fondato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	PRON	PC	obj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinando	ordinare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesse	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Davanti	Davanti	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
355	355	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
350-bis	350-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
348-bis	348-bis	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
350	350	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	ADJ	A	ROOT
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	S	amod
antecedente	antecedente	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
risolutivi	risolutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
351	351	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	appos
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
283	283	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ccomp
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
giusti	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modifica	modificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
matura	maturo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
281-sexies	281-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
352	352	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Esaurita	Esaurita	NOUN	S	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
351	351	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
350-bis	350-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
rinuncino	rinuncare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentori	perentore	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	nmod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	amod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
precisazione	precisazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comparse	comparso	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusionali	conclusionale	NOUN	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
replica	replica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuta	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivo	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
doveva	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
doveva	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estromessa	estromettere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	Primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	Primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotto	interrompere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
sussistente	sussistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obj
negata	negare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbero	essere	AUX	V	cop
precluse	precluso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
355	355	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	appos
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
querela	querela	ADJ	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
impugnato	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
rilevante	rilevante	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fissa	fissare	ADJ	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
falso	falso	ADJ	A	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
356	356	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
continuare	continuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
191	191	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delega	delega	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	cop
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definendo	definere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
357	357	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	dep
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
358	358	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riproponibilità	riproponibilità	NOUN	S	appos
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dichiarato	dichiarato	VERB	V	acl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposto	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
359	359	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dettate	dettare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
1990	1990	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	flat:name
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sentenze	Sentenza	NOUN	S	appos
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	ROOT
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
falsa	falso	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	nmod
esame	esame	NOUN	S	compound
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivo	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
d'	di	ADP	E	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
omettere	omettere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decidono	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obl
insorte	insorto	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	ROOT
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
360-bis	360-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inammissibilità	Inammissibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisprudenza	giurisprudenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
offre	offrire	VERB	V	ROOT
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mutare	mutare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
orientamento	orientamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	advcl
infondata	infondato	ADJ	V	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
censura	censura	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giusto	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
361	361	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riserva	Riserva	NOUN	SP	appos
facoltativa	facoltativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decidono	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differito	differire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definisca	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
rimane	rimane	NOUN	V	xcomp
priva	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altri	altro	DET	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Possono	Potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
325	325	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negativi	negativo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
negativi	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
passate	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-quater	391-quater	NUM	N	nummod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Protocolli	Protocolli	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
363	363	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Principio	principio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ricorribile	ricorribile	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Procuratore	Procuratore	PROPN	SP	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	SP	nsubj
enunci	enuncio	CCONJ	V	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
attenersi	attenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolta	rivolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
pronunci	pronuncare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
decisa	deciso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
363-bis	363-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costituite	costituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
risolta	risolgere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	obj
interpretative	interpretativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
suscettibile	suscettibile	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
porsi	pore si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
numerosi	numeroso	DET	DI	det
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
reca	recare	VERB	V	advcl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
interpretazioni	interpretazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possibili	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	parataxis
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
enunciazione	enunciazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
requisitoria	requisitorio	NOUN	S	amod
scritta	scritta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
brevi	breve	ADJ	A	amod
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
378	378	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
enunciato	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
365	365	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscritto	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl
iscritto	iscritto	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
366	366	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
impugnata	impugnare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
illustrazione	illustrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	conj
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fondano	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
illustrazione	illustrazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	V	obl
apposto	apposto	NOUN	S	xcomp
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
unirsi	unire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
366-bis	366-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
367	367	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
pende	pendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	amod
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	amod
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riassumere	riassumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
368	368	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Questione	Questione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sollevata	sollevare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Re	Re	PROPN	SP	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
pende	pendere	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
pende	pendere	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
pende	pendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	PRON	DD	det
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
investita	investire	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
diligente	diligente	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
369	369	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Insieme	Insieme	ADV	B	case
col	con il	DET	E_RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	ROOT
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	ROOT
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
370	370	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Controricorso	Controricorso	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
contradire	contradire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
1e	1e	ADP	E	advmod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
365	365	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
366	366	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	PQ	fixed
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ricorso	Ricorso	PROPN	SP	appos
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
332	332	NUM	N	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
365	365	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
366	366	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
369	369	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
resistere	resistere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	dep
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	Corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intestazione	intestazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contradditorio	contradditorio	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnato	assegnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
372	372	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controricorso	controricorso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
373	373	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreparabile	irreparabile	ADJ	A	conj
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	conj
congrua	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conciliatore	conciliatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Camera	Camera	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notificate	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
provvisoriamente	provvisoriamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
374	374	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	Pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proposta	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unite	Unite	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	Corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
pronunci	pronuncare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unire	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
decisa	deciso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
difforme	difforma	NOUN	S	compound
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
massima	massima	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
condividere	condividere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
enunciato	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
375	375	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-quater	391-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dovere	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	dep
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	punct
31	31	NUM	N	flat
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	S	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	ROOT
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
197;(152	197;(152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3)NUMERO	3)NUMERO	NUM	N	nummod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
31	31	NUM	N	nummod

AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	S	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	obl
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
197;(152	197;(152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	csubj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	ROOT
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	ROOT
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	ROOT
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
376	376	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
assegna	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
unite	unire	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
377	377	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricorsi	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	Unite	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
ricorsi	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	VERB	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
378	378	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
sintetiche	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
illustrative	illustrativo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
379	379	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Discussione	Discussione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
relatore	relatore	NOUN	S	amod
espone	espone	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
sintesi	sintesi	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	xcomp
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difese	difese	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicandone	indicandone	NOUN	S	advcl
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
punti	punto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
NON	NON	ADV	BN	amod
PIÙ	PIÙ	DET	SP	det
PREVISTO	PREVISTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	S	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	appos
168	168	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2016	2016	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
197.(152	197.(152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
repliche.(152	repliche.(152	PROPN	SP	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delibera	delibero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
seduta	seduta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
380-bis	380-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
accelerata	accelerare	VERB	V	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
inammissibili	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
improcedibili	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	S	conj
infondati	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consigliere	consigliere	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
infondatezza	infondatezza	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ricorrente	ricorrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	A	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
380-bis.1	380-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
definisce	definire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
applica	applicare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
380-bis.1	380-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sintetiche	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
illustrative	illustrativo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sinteticamente	sinteticamente	NOUN	S	nmod
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riservarsi	riservare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
380-ter	380-ter	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
375	375	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
380-bis.1	380-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
381	381	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
decide	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
statuisce	statuire	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinando	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
cassa	cassare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
statuisce	statuire	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
impugna	impugnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
difettano	difettare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cassa	cattere	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Egualmente	Egualmente	ADV	B	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
poteva	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
proseguito	proseguito	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
383	383	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
richiamati	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riscontra	riscontrare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimettere	rimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	Primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
384	384	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Enunciazione	enunciazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
enuncia	enunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
decide	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
360	360	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risolve	risolvere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cassa	cassare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
rinviando	rinviare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
uniformarsi	uniformare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
statuito	statuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
decide	decidere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	SP	nsubj
riserva	riservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
erroneamente	erroneamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivate	motivare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
limita	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
correggere	correggere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
385	385	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	appos
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
cassa	cassare	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidandole	liquidandola	NOUN	S	dep
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimettendone	rimettendone	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimetterne	rimettere ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
386	386	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proponibilità	proponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
387	387	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riproponibilità	riproponibilità	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposto	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trasmissione	Trasmissione	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presa	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
nota	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
389	389	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Domande	domanda	NOUN	SP	appos
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pristino	pristino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
conseguente	conseguente	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
390	390	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinuncia	Rinuncia	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rinunciare	rinunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incidentale	incidentale	ADJ	A	conj
finchè	finchè	VERB	V_PC	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cominciata	cominciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	nmod
camerale	camerale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munito	munire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pronuncia	Pronuncia	NOUN	S	appos
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
altri	altro	PRON	PI	amod
ricorsi	ricore si	VERB	V_PC	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condannare	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152	152	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nessuna	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
aderito	aderire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
380-bis	380-bis	NUM	N	nummod
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affetti	affetto	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
materiale	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
365	365	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chierre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
152)(171)(173	152)(171)(173	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
respinto	respinto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
riassumerlo	riassumere lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
391-ter	391-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	Corte	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ricorsi	ricorso	NOUN	V_PC	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
propongono	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
398	398	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
405	405	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
391-quater	391-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revocazione	Revocazione	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
contrarietà	contrarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
passate	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uomo	uomo	NOUN	S	nmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salvaguardia	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Uomo	Uomo	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Libertà	Libertà	NOUN	S	conj
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
Protocolli	Protocolli	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pregiudicato	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	obj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	Corte	NOUN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
391-ter	391-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
buona	buono	ADJ	A	amod
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
svoltosi	svoltosi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
innanzi	innanzi	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
392	392	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
393	393	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
avvera	avverare	VERB	V	conj
successivamente	successivo	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
instaurato	instaurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproposizione	riproposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
394	394	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinviato	rinviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avevano	avere	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deferirsi	deferire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	obj
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prese	prendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cassata	cassato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
sorga	sorgo	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
giudicato	giudicare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciute	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
false	falso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
soccombente	soccombente	ADJ	A	amod
ignorava	ignorare	VERB	VA	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciute	riconosciere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
tali	tale	PRON	A	xcomp
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trovati	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	det
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avversario	avversario	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
supposizione	supposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
verità	verità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
incontrastabilmente	incontrastabilmente	ADJ	A	amod
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
supposta	supposto	ADJ	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inesistenza	inesistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
verità	verità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
positivamente	positivamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tanto	tanto	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituì	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obj
controverso	controverso	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
ebbe	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
avente	avente	VERB	V	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicata	giudicato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
396	396	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricupero	ricupero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvenuti	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
avvengono	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenimento	avvenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
raggiungere	raggiungere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
397	397	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Revocazione	Revocazione	NOUN	SP	appos
proponibile	proponibile	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collusione	collusione	NOUN	S	nmod
posta	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
frodare	frodare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-quater	391-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
171	171	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
398	398	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
395	395	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
munito	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
infondata	infondato	ADJ	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obj
proposta	proposta	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
399	399	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comparsa	comparsa	NOUN	S	obl
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod

debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
319	319	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
401	401	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
373	373	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
402	402	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
siasi	siase	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
conseguito	conseguire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
revocata	revocato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dover	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
istruttore	istruttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
403	403	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Contro	contro	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
404	404	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	conj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nsubj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collusione	collusione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
39	39	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
405	405	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Domanda	Domanda	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
allo	a il	DET	E_RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
163	163	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collusione	collusione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
406	406	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Procedimento	Procedimento	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
adito	adito	NOUN	S	compound
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derogate	derogare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
373	373	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
408	408	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcedibile	improcedibile	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rigetta	rigetta	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
infondatezza	infondatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opponente	opponente	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
impugnata	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conciliatore	conciliatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centocinquanta	centocinquanta	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pretore	pretore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
trecento	trecento	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	conj
seicento	seicento	PROPN	SP	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Controversie	controversie	NOUN	S	appos
individuali	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzadria	mezzadria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
colonia	colonia	NOUN	S	conj
parziaria	parziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
compartecipazione	compartecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
agraria	agrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
affitto	affitto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
coltivatore	coltivatore	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
agrari	agrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
specializzate	specializzato	ADJ	A	amod
agrarie	agrario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
concretino	concretare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coordinata	coordinato	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
coordinata	coordinare	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collaboratore	collaboratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
organizza	organizzare	VERB	V	advcl
autonomamente	autonomamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	semprechè	PRON	V_PC	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
410	410	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
propone	proporre	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
aderisce	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	conj
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interrompe	interrompe	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospende	sospende	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituite	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composta	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	conj
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
riposo	riposo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designati	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
commissioni	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
se	si	PRON	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidano	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sottocommissioni	sottocommissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presiedute	presiedute	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispecchino	rispecchare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datori	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spedita	spedire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spedita	spedire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	appos
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
prestava	prestare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
istante	istante	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pretesa	pretesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposita	deposire	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
libera	libero	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adire	adire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
aderisce	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferisce	conferire	VERB	V	conj
mandato	mandato	VERB	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dar	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
410-bis	410-bis	DET	DD	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
411	411	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Processo	Processo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
esperita	esperitare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
410	410	NUM	N	nummod
riesce	riere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	conj
separato	separato	ADJ	A	xcomp
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
raggiunge	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
formulare	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
bonaria	bonario	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riassunti	riassunire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
espresse	espresse	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
formulata	formulare	VERB	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ove	Ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riuscito	riuscire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
410	410	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertatane	accertatanere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
depositarlo	depositare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
412	412	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	S	nmod
riuscita	riuscito	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
concordano	concordare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riconoscendo	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accordarsi	accordare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affidando	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
superare	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spirato	spirare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
invocate	invocare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pretese	pretesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autenticato	autenticare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1372	1372	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
2113	2113	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
irrituale	irrituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Decorso	decorso	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovverso	ovverso	ADJ	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinto	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
412-bis	412-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
412-ter	412-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrato	ADJ	A	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrattazione	contrattazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrato	arbitrare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolti	svogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritti	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
412-quater	412-quater	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrato	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ferma	Ferma	PROPN	SP	obl
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adire	adire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
innanzi	innanzi	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrare	ADJ	V	conj
irrituale	irrituale	ADJ	A	amod
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrato	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
composto	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scelto	scegliere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
professori	professore	NOUN	S	nmod
universitari	universitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	conj
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intenda	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrato	ADJ	A	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
sottoscritto	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mandato	mandare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
limitare	limitare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
invocate	invocare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pretesa	pretesa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
equità	equità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	conj
regolatori	regolatore	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
convenuta	convenuto	ADJ	A	amod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
arbitrato	arbitrare	ADJ	A	conj
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concordemente	concordemente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circondario	circondario	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
prestava	prestare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
concorde	concorde	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
convenuta	convenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sottoscritta	sottoscritta	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avvocato	avvocato	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conferito	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mandato	mandare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
replica	replico	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
controreplica	controreplica	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
controreplica	controreplica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	dep
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
eletto	eleggere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
esperisce	esperire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
411	411	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
interrogare	interrogare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ammettere	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rinviare	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
decisa	deciso	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
autenticato	autenticare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1372	1372	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2113	2113	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
irrituale	irrituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
808-ter	808-ter	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Decorso	decorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinto	respingere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrato	arbitrato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitrale	arbitrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versato	versare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
circolari	circolare	ADJ	A	amod
intestati	intestare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultime	ADJ	NO	dep
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidate	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lodo	lodo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
92	92	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nsubj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
arbitro	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Par	par	ADV	B	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Del	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	appos
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competente	competente	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
prestava	prestare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
permane	permanere	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Competente	competente	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competente	competente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenze	dipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dipendente	dipendente	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1933	1933	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1611	1611	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulle	nulle	VERB	PI	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	obj
derogative	derogativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
414	414	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	appos
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	appos
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrente	ricorrentere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenuto	convenuto	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	appos
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comitato	comitato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	conj
;)	;)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
offrono	offrire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fisso	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
417	417	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elevato	elevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elevato	elevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ottanta	ottanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
destinataria	destinatariare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
equiparate	equiparato	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prescrivono	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevabili	rilevabile	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
generica	generico	ADJ	A	amod
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
affermati	affermare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondamento	fondamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	conj
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
417	417	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
mila	mila	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stà	stàre	AUX	V	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
propone	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
414	414	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
elenchi	elenco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	ccomp
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
attore	attore	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stanno	stare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
417-bis	417-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stare	stare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
statali	statale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
equiparate	equiparato	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	PROPN	SP	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	obl
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
massima	massima	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
notevoli	notevole	ADJ	A	amod
riflessi	riflesso	NOUN	S	obj
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determini	determino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	nmod
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	SP	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenzioso	contenzioso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Avvocatura	Avvocatura	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
economie	economia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
conferiscono	conferire	VERB	VA	advcl
mandato	mandato	VERB	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
418	418	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazione	Notificazione	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	PRON	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunci	pronuncio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
riconvenzionale	riconvenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attore	attore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intercorrere	intercorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elevato	elevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
settanta	settanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
elevato	elevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
trentacinque	trentacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
419	419	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	appos
volontario	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
414	414	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
416	416	NUM	N	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	nmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
37	37	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
89	89	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Udienza	Udienza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
interroga	interrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenta	tentare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lite	lite	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formula	formulare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
transattiva	transattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conciliativa	conciliativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
transattiva	transattivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conciliativa	conciliativo	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	obj
valutabile	valutabile	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
formulate	formulato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conciliare	conciliare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
transigere	transigere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riesce	riuscire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
matura	maturo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
definire	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
proposti	proposre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	conj
altra	altro	DET	DI	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	prima	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concedendo	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
giusti	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	appos
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
note	nota	NOUN	S	obl
difensive	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dedurre	dedurre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
rendano	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
ammessi	ammesso	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammette	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
dedotti	dedurre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
controparte	controparte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaurita	esaurire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
feriali	feriale	ADJ	A	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiamata	chiamata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
106	106	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
107	107	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
introduttivo	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservati	osservare	VERB	V_PC	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
meno	meno	PRON	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositando	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

A	A	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mero	mero	ADJ	A	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietate	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
420-bis	420-bis	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
validità	validità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
risolvere	risolvere	VERB	V	csubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
validità	validità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
clausole	clausola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impartendo	impartere	VERB	V	advcl
distinti	distinto	ADJ	A	advmod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
immediato	immediare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
proporsi	propore si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
421	421	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Poteri	Poteri	NOUN	S	appos
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sanate	sanare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assegnando	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
quesiti	quesito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giuramento	giuramento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisorio	decisorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	AUX	VA	cc
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
orali	orale	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sesto	sesto	PRON	NO	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dispone	dispone	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	appos
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	si	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	det
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
interrogarle	interrogare le	VERB	V_PC	advcl
liberamente	liberamente	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
incapaci	incapace	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
246	246	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
422	422	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Registrazione	Registrazione	PROPN	SP	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
nastro	nastro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbalizzazione	verbalizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
nastro	nastro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposizioni	deposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
testi	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
audizioni	audizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
423	423	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordinanze	ordinanze	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	vocative
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contestate	contestare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Egualmente	Egualmente	ADV	B	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoratore	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
accertato	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
revocabile	revocabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assistenza	Assistenza	PROPN	SP	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scelti	scegliere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
albi	albo	NOUN	S	obl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
raccolte	raccogliere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
422	422	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prorogabile	prorogabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinviando	rinviare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trattazione	trattazione	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
425	425	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sindacale	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl:agent
ha	avere	VERB	V	parataxis
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
orali	orale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scritte	scritta	ADJ	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
421	421	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	obl
sindacali	sindacale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
collettivi	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
aziendali	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
426	426	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Passaggio	Passaggio	PROPN	SP	appos
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
promossa	promossa	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ccomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovranno	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
come	come	ADP	E	case
sopra	sopra	ADV	B	advmod
fissata	fissare	ADJ	A	acl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
427	427	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Passaggio	Passaggio	PROPN	SP	appos
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
promossa	promossa	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimette	rimette	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
avranno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
428	428	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
409	409	NUM	N	nummod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenuto	convenuto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	obl
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevata	rilevato	ADJ	A	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riassunzione	riassunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rito	rito	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep