Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Armi	Armi	PROPN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
armi	arma	NOUN	V_PC	nmod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
spiccata	spiccato	ADJ	A	amod
potenzialità	potenzialità	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
moderno	moderno	ADJ	A	amod
armamento	armamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
truppe	truppa	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estere	estero	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
bellico	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bombe	bomba	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aggressivi	aggressivo	ADJ	A	amod
chimici	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
radioattivi	radioattivo	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	conj
bellici	bellico	NOUN	A	amod
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
bottiglie	bottiglia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	conj
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
incendiari	incendiario	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	S	ROOT
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	obj
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientrando	rientrare	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
munizionamento	munizionamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux
predisposte	predisporre	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
raffica	raffica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
balistiche	balistico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
armi	arma	NOUN	S	xcomp
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	compound
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
camuffate	camuffato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
527	527	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
bossoli	bossolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
proiettili	proiettile	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caricamento	caricamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
calibro	calibro	NOUN	S	nmod
9x19	9x19	PROPN	SP	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
recare	recare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	obj
NATO	NATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	conj
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
individuarne	individuare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Armi	Armi	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	conj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	S	ROOT
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
semiautomatici	semiautomatico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	PI	advmod
canne	canne	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anima	anima	NOUN	S	amod
liscia	liscia	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
canne	canere	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anima	anima	NOUN	S	nmod
rigata	rigato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
caricamento	caricamento	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
manuale	manuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tre	tre	NUM	N	conj
canne	canna	NOUN	S	nmod
miste	misto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anime	anima	NOUN	S	obl
lisce	lisco	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigate	rigare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
caricamento	caricamento	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
manuale	manuale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
carabine	carabina	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
moschetti	moschetto	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anima	anima	NOUN	S	nmod
rigata	rigato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
semiautomatico	semiautomatico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
carabine	carabina	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impiegano	impiegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
percussione	percussione	NOUN	S	obl
anulare	anulare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivoltelle	rivoltella	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rotazione	rotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
pistole	pistola	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
semiautomatico	semiautomatico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
repliche	replica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma|arme	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
avancarica	avancarico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1890	1890	NUM	N	nummod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
colpo	colpo	NOUN	S	nmod
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	ROOT
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
carabine	carabina	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
potendosi	potere si	AUX	VM_PC	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
munizionamento	munizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentino	presentino	NOUN	S	obj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
limitato	limitare	VERB	V	conj
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
repliche	replica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma|arme	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
caricatori	caricatore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissi	fisso	NOUN	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amovibili	amovibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
colpi	colpo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
lunghe	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
colpi	colpo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
corte	corto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
caricatori	caricatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
progettato	progettato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adattato	adattare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
attenuare	attenuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rumore	rumore	NOUN	S	obj
causato	causare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
repliche	replica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpi	colpo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
infine	infine	ADV	B	advmod
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
denominate	denominare	VERB	V	acl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
bersaglio	bersaglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
salà	salà	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	nmod
compressa	compresso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
compressi	compresso	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	B	cop
lunghe	lungo	ADJ	A	conj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
corte	corto	ADJ	A	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
proiettili	proiettile	VERB	S	nsubj
erogano	erogano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
cinetica	cinetico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
7,5	7,5	NUM	N	nummod
joule	joule	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
lanciarazzi	lanciarazzo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pesca	pesca	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
escluda	escludo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attitudine	attitudine	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
recare	recare	VERB	V	acl
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	nmod
compressa	compresso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
compresso	compresso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nmod
liscia	liscio	VERB	V	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lancio	lancio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
capsule	capsula	NOUN	S	nmod
sferiche	sferico	ADJ	A	amod
marcatrici	marcatrice	NOUN	S	amod
prive	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	conj
classificate	classificare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1272/2008	1272/2008	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
erogano	erogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
cinetica	cinetico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
12,7	12,7	NUM	N	nummod
joule	joule	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
di	di	ADP	E	case
calibro	calibro	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
12,7	12,7	NUM	N	nummod
millimetri	millimetro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
17,27	17,27	NUM	N	nummod
millimetri	millimetro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prototipi	prototipo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
erogano	erogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
cinetica	cinetico	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
7,5	7,5	NUM	N	nummod
joule	joule	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
agonistica	agonistico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17-bis	17-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impiegare	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
amatoriale	amatoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
agonistica	agonistico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
palla	palla	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
pallottole	pallottolo	ADJ	A	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	obl
perforante	perforante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
traccianti	tracciante	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incendiarie	incendiario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl
esplosiva	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
espansione	espansione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autopropellenti	autopropellente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
tali	tale	PRON	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tossiche	tossico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
corrosive	corrosivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
capsule	capsula	NOUN	S	conj
sferiche	sferico	ADJ	A	amod
marcatrici	marcatrico	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
consentite	consentire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccettuate	eccettuare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lanciano	lanciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
narcotizzanti	narcotizzante	ADJ	A	amod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
scientifici	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
zoofilia	zoofilia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
lanciarazzi	lanciarazzo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
portati	portare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvataggio	salvataggio	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
muniti	munire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cartuccia	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2019/69	2019/69	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
allarme	allarme	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
91/477	91/477	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterando	alterare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
meccaniche	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	E	iobj
aumenti	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
potenzialità	potenzialità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
renda	rendere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
agevole	agevole	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
occultamento	occultamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomila	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Porto	porto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offendere	offendere	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salve	Salve	PROPN	SP	flat:name
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portati	portare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenze	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mazze	mazza	NOUN	S	conj
ferrate	ferrare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bastoni	bastone	NOUN	S	conj
ferrati	ferrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sfollagente	sfollagente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
noccoliere	noccoliere	VERB	V	conj
storditori	storditore	NOUN	S	obj
elettrici	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	det
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
analoghi	analogo	ADJ	A	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
erogare	erogare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
elettrocuzione	elettrocuzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	obl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
portarsi	portare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenze	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bastoni	bastone	NOUN	S	nsubj
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
puntale	puntale	NOUN	S	obl
acuminato	acuminato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
strumenti	strumento	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
punta	punta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offendere	offendere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mazze	mazza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tubi	tubo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
catene	catena	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fionde	fiondere	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bulloni	bullone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sfere	sfera	NOUN	S	conj
metalliche	metallico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	acl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
punta	punta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzabile	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
puntatori	puntatore	NOUN	S	conj
laser	laser	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
puntatori	puntatore	NOUN	S	nmod
laser	laser	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
classe	classe	NOUN	S	conj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
3b	3b	VERB	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
CEI	CEI	PROPN	SP	nmod
EN	EN	PROPN	SP	nmod
60825-	60825-	NUM	N	flat:name
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CEI	CEI	PROPN	SP	conj
EN	EN	PROPN	SP	flat:name
60825-	60825-	NUM	N	flat:name
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
A11	A11	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CEI	CEI	PROPN	SP	conj
EN	EN	PROPN	SP	flat:name
60825-	60825-	NUM	N	flat:name
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquantamila	cinquantamila	NUM	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
porto	porto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offendere	offendere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
portare	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunioni	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
munite	munito	ADJ	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
quattrocentomila	quattrocentomila	PRON	PR	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
quattrocentomila	quattrocentomila	PRON	PR	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
munita	munire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza.(16	Licenza.(16	PROPN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	Chiunque	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
infuori	infuore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
porta	porgere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricompreso	ricomprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
quattrocentomila	quattrocentomila	NUM	PR	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiata	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
895	895	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	NOUN	SP	flat:name
1993	1993	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	appos
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
GIUGNO	GIUGNO	PROPN	SP	nmod
1993	1993	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
offendere	offendere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
aste	asta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
bandiere	bandiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cartelli	cartello	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
striscioni	striscione	NOUN	S	conj
usate	usare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cortei	corteo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
simbolici	simbolico	ADJ	A	amod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adoperati	adoperare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
contundenti	contundente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rievocazione	rievocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
storica	storico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipanti	partecipante	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
manifestazioni	manifestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	conj
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	csubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
portare	portare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
usare	usare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
fabbricate	fabbricare	ADJ	A	amod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1950	1950	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
repliche	replica	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
organizzatore	organizzatore	NOUN	S	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dettagliato	dettagliato	NOUN	S	amod
elenco	elenco	NOUN	A	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
portatori	portatore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
archi	arco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
balestre	balestra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spade	spada	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sciabole	sciabola	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
asta	asta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
baionette	baionetto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pugnali	pugnale	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stiletti	stiletto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Porto	Porto	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appartenenze	appartenenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
porta	portare	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADV	B	advmod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commesso	commesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
travisate	travisato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
riunite	riunito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
11-ter	11-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediate	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
vicinanze	vicinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
postali	postale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sportelli	sportello	NOUN	S	conj
automatici	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parchi	parco	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giardini	giardino	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperti	apertare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	conj
ferroviarie	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
metropolitane	metropolitano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sosta	sosta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermata	fermata	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adunanza	adunanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
trasformabili	trasformabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pallini	pallino	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
bossoli	bossolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inneschi	inneschio	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pallini	pallino	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	nmod
compressa	compresso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1274	1274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1452	1452	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	obl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
riproducenti	riproducente	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fabbricati	fabbricato	VERB	S	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consentano	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comuni	comune	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentano	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
munizionamento	munizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
lancio	lancio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
metallo	metallo	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	obj
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
ostruita	ostruire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
camerare	camerare	VERB	V	acl
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	obj
occlusa	occludere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tappo	tappo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rosso	rosso	ADJ	A	amod
inamovibile	inamovibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
acustica	acustico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rumore	rumore	NOUN	S	obj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accensione	accensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cartuccia	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
salve	salvo	ADJ	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	obj
occlusa	occludere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
inserto	inserto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
metallo	metallo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tappo	tappo	NOUN	S	conj
rosso	rosso	ADJ	A	amod
inamovibile	inamovibile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremità	estremità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
softair	softair	PROPN	S	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vendibili	vendibile	ADJ	A	amod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sparare	sparare	VERB	V	ROOT
pallini	pallino	NOUN	B	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
plastica	plastica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
colore	colore	NOUN	S	nmod
vivo	vivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aria	aria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
compresso	compresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singolo	singolo	NOUN	S	nmod
pallino	pallino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
misurata	misurare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
metro	metro	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
volata	volata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
joule	joule	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colorata	colorare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rosso	rosso	NOUN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
centimetri	centimetro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
sporgente	sporgente	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
verniciatura	verniciatura	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
interessare	interessare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
tratto	tratto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nessuna	nessuno	DET	DI	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspetto	aspetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
riproducenti	riproducente	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
scenico	scenico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
riproducenti	riproducente	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	V_PC	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
occlusa	occludere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
acustica	acustico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
lanciarazzi	lanciarazzo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autodifesa	autodifesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	ROOT
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
verifica	verifico	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
acustica	acustico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autodifesa	autodifesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
provvisti	provvista	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cartuccia	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importati	importare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2019/69	2019/69	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
omologhi	omologo	NOUN	S	nmod
punti	punto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
82	82	NUM	N	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
1.500	1.500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
aggravante	aggravante	ADJ	B	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggravato	aggravare	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
acustica	acustico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2019/69	2019/69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
consultiva	consultivo	ADJ	A	amod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
consultiva	consultivo	ADJ	A	conj
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
compone	comporre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Polizia	Polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Arma	Arma	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
designazioni	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
plurime	plurimo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpo	Corpo	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
esperti	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
balistica	balistico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
armi	arma|arme	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rare	rare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	conj
storica	storico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
funzionario	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durano	durare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carica	carica	NOUN	S	obl
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconfermati	riconfermare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
supplente	supplente	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obj
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
effettivi	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	obj
i	il	DET	RD	det
supplenti	supplente	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogazione	catalogazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importate	importare	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertando	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientrino	rientrare	VERB	V	ccomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
contemplate	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
normativo	normativo	ADJ	A	conj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
intesa	intendere	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nulla	nulla	NOUN	S	obj
osta	ostare	VERB	V	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1274	1274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1452	1452	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permesso	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
porto	porto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
31	31	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42	42	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sopracitato	sopracitato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
37	37	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sostenere	sostenere	VERB	V	aux
apposito	apposire	VERB	V	ROOT
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
integrata	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Coloro	coloro	NOUN	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
antecedenti	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
appartenuto	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esibiscano	esibiscare	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maneggio	maneggio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Federazione	federazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sottoporsi	sottopore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adempiuto	adempiere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	conj
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Coloro	coloro	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
industria	industria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	compound
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1274	1274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1452	1452	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	SP	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1965	1965	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1423	1423	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
A	A	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rilasciarsi	rilasciare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferite	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
pervengono	pervenge	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conservarle	conservare le	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni.(16	milioni.(16	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendone	essendonere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo.(16	articolo.(16	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salva	Salva	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
valido	valido	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anima	anima	NOUN	S	nmod
liscia	lisciare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
repliche	replica	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
avancarica	avancarica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Restano	Restano	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ferme	ferma	ADJ	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	S	ROOT
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
avancarica	avancarico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
fabbricate	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1890	1890	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rare	rare	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obl
storica	storico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1890	1890	NUM	N	nmod
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	amod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanarsi	emanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dette	Dette	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
detengono	detengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	nmod
giorni	giorno	ADJ	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
munizionamento	munizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	obl
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nono	nono	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trasportare	trasportare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
poligoni	poligone	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
campi	campo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpi	colpo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
munizionamento	munizionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consumato	consumare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punite	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottavo	ottavo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nono	nire	VERB	V	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
milione.(16	milione.(16	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotte	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assemblate	assemblare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
introdotte	introdovere	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impressa	imprimere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblatore	assemblatore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assemblaggio	assemblaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sigla	sigla	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assemblatore	assemblatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assemblaggio	assemblaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
serie	serie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assemblaggio	assemblaggio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
serie	serie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impressa	imprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
telaio	telaio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fusto	fusto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
527	527	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposto	apporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
marchio	marchio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	nmod
troppo	troppo	ADV	B	advmod
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux
provvista	provvirre	ADJ	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contrassegnata	contrassegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
serie	serie	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
alfanumerico	alfanumerico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impresso	imprettere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
canne	canna	NOUN	S	obl
intercambiabili	intercambiabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
calibro	calibro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
canna	canna	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
visibile	visibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
ispezionabile	ispezionabile	ADJ	A	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
attrezzi	attrezzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sigla	sigla	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	A	amod
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	nmod
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
permanentemente	permanentemente	ADV	B	amod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provviste	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	obl
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
identificare	identificare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2019/68	2019/68	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Gardone	Gardone	PROPN	SP	nmod
Valtrompia	Valtrompia	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
canne	canna	NOUN	S	conj
presentate	presentare	ADJ	A	amod
rechino	rechare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprime	imprime	VERB	A	conj
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emblema	emblema	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sigla	sigla	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	B	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	ADJ	A	nmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
recanti	recante	NOUN	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
punzoni	punzone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banchi	banco	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettate	assoggettare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Gardone	Gardone	PROPN	SP	nmod
Valtrompia	Valtrompia	PROPN	SP	flat:name
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
rechino	recare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introdotte	introdovere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prototipo	prototipo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	amod
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nsubj
inoltri	inoltrare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
manchino	manchino	NOUN	S	advcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
curare	curare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
adempimenti	adempimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apporli	appore li	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
motivata	motivata	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nmod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vistata	vistare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comando	comando	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impresso	imprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
progressivo	progressivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
canne	canna	NOUN	S	conj
intercambiabili	intercambiabile	ADJ	A	amod
importate	importare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
mancanti	mancante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	ADJ	A	nmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importate	importare	VERB	V	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importate	importare	VERB	V	conj
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1920	1920	NUM	N	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
portatili	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
fisso	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinarsi	determinare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citata	citata	NOUN	S	nmod
legge	Legge	VERB	S	advcl
23	23	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
tantum	tantum	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contributo	contributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
straordinario	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nono	nere	VERB	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rottamazione	rottamazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
divenga	divengare	VERB	V	advcl
inservibile	inservibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
rottura	rottura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usura	usura	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rottamazione	rottamazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comando	Comando	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
Reparto	Reparto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	Forze	PROPN	SP	nmod
Armate	Armate	PROPN	SP	flat:name
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rottamazione	rottamazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	csubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
inservibile	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
rottura	rottura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usura	usura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rottamazione	rottamazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	S	obj
marcatura	marcaturo	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stanziamento	stanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	obl
6856	6856	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1980	1980	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accantonamento	accantonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
predisposto	predisposto	ADJ	B	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Lomè	Lomè	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tracciabilità	Tracciabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
marca	marca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
calibro	calibro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	conj
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
quale	quale	ADP	E	case
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nmod
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	conj
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
differisca	differire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	obl
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chi	chi	PRON	PR	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
importare	importare	VERB	V	xcomp
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
munirsi	munire si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
anagrafica	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
intesa	intendere	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
importa	importare	VERB	V	ROOT
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
munirsi	munire si	VERB	V_PC	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
dogana	dogano	NOUN	V	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nazionalizzazione	nazionalizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curarne	curare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inoltro	inoltro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Gardone	Gardone	PROPN	SP	nmod
Valtrompia	Valtrompia	PROPN	SP	flat:name
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicina	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccezion	eccezion	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
punzoni	punzone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
993	993	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
provviste	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	obl
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13-bis	13-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Immissione	Immissione	PROPN	SP	appos
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immesse	immettere	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
demilitarizzate	demilitarizzare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
demilitarizzazione	demilitarizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cedute	cedere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
demilitarizzazione	demilitarizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
disattivate	disattivato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
alienate	alienare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
disattivate	disattivare	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inerte	inerte	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
portata	portare	VERB	V	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mero	mero	ADJ	A	amod
simulacro	simulacro	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreversibile	irreversibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
demilitarizzazione	demilitarizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disattivazione	disattivazione	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
muniti	munire	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obl
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disattivazione	disattivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
disattivazione	disattivazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazioni	Amministrazioni	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questura	questura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arsenali	arsenale	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Armi	Armi	PROPN	SP	nmod
inidonee	inidoneo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
catalogate	catalogare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
canne	canna	NOUN	S	conj
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superino	superare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1960	1960	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
186	186	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultino	risultare	VERB	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
catalogate	catalogato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipi	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
catalogati	catalogare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Trascorsi	Trascorsi	VERB	V	advcl
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogana	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
nazionalizzazione	nazionalizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispedizione	rispedizione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
abbandonate	abbandonare	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versate	versare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
artiglieria	artiglieria	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporne	dispore ne	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rottamazione	rottamazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	obl
considerate	considerare	VERB	S	ROOT
abbandonate	abbandonare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rinviate	rinviare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogana	dogana	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rispedizione	rispedizione	NOUN	S	obj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogana	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
rispedizione	rispedizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
inidonee	inidoneo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
catalogate	catalogato	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutari	valutario	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
sgravio	sgravio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
liquidati	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pagati	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
resi	rese	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
catalogazione	catalogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimoranti	dimorare	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	obl
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
sportive	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provviste	provvista	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
espositivi	espositivo	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
fiere	fiere	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mostre	mostra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
esteri	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
turismo	turismo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
spettacolo	spettacolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
porto	porto	ADJ	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
importate	importato	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorso	Trascorso	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
ventimila	ventimila	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esportazione	Esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatori	obbligatore	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
visita	visita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vistata	vistare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obj
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
espositivi	espositivo	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
fiere	fiere	VERB	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esposizioni	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mostre	mostra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma|arme	NOUN	S	nmod
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rare	rare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
importanza	importanza	NOUN	S	obj
storica	storico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mostre	mostra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scambi	scambio	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Compravendita	compravendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
intracomunitari	intracomunitare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
compravendita	compravendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
commissionate	commissionare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquistate	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
privo	privo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritiro	ritiro	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
31-bis	31-bis	PROPN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comando	comando	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressori	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvo	salvo	ADV	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	S	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
produttrici	produttore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
muniti	munire	ADJ	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	obl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presa	prendere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
marina	marina	NOUN	S	obl
mercantile	mercantile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
poste	posta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriale	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
ventimila	ventimila	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pallini	pallino	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polveri	polvero	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commessi	commesso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tessere	tessera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
34	34	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservato	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
canne	canne	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
carcasse	carcassa	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
carrelli	carrelle	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fusti	fusta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tamburi	tamburo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bascule	bascule	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
quarantamila	quarantamila	NUM	N	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centosessantamila	centosessantamila	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	ROOT
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
ottantamila	ottantamila	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	PRON	PC	obj
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	aux
da	da	ADP	E	mark
considerare	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
semilavorato	semilavorato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
semilavorato	semilavorare	NOUN	V	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
poter	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assemblata	assemblare	VERB	V	advcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
garantirne	garantire ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
necessita	necessitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
lavorazioni	lavorazione	NOUN	S	obl
meccaniche	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	mark
considerare	considerare	VERB	V	ccomp
lavorazioni	lavorazione	NOUN	S	obj
meccaniche	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	obj
superficiali	superficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metalli	metallo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Denunzia	denunzia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
furto	furto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
smarrimento	smarrimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinvenimento	rinvenimento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
diligenza	diligenza	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
professionalmente	professionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collezione	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
efficienti	efficiente	ADJ	A	amod
difese	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
antifurto	antifurto	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dello	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
smarrimento	smarrimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Furto	Furto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	case
denunzia	denunzia	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
manchi	manco	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
comando	comando	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
rinvenga	rinvenga	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuarne	effettuare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
comando	comando	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rilasciano	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
rinvenga	rinvenere	VERB	V	ROOT
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
venga	venire	AUX	V	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvenimenti	rinvenimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
comando	comando	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salva	Salva	PROPN	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
porto	porto	NOUN	S	conj
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
contravventore	contravventore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevedendo	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
passiva	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tracciabilità	tracciabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
semplificazione	semplificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
snellimento	snellimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20-bis	20-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omessa	Omessa	PROPN	SP	nmod
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ccomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
incapaci	incapace	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tossicodipendenti	tossicodipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
imperite	imperito	ADJ	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
maneggio	maneggio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giocattoli	giocattolo	NOUN	S	obl
pirici	pirico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
trascura	trascurare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adoperare	adoperare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
giunga	giungere	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
impossessarsene	impossessarsene	NOUN	S	obl
agevolmente	agevolmente	ADV	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arrresto	arrresto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomila	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogi	luogio	NOUN	S	obl
predisposti	predisporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
sportiva	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
venatoria	venatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Distrazione	distrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
distrae	distrae	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottrae	sottrae	PROPN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sovvertire	sovvertire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentati	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	appos
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
286	286	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
306	306	NUM	N	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Locazione	Locazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comodato	comodato	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
comodato	comodato	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
scenico	scenico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
sportivo	sportivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conduttore	conduttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accomodatario	accomodatario	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munito	munire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
avvenga	avvenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
scenico	scenico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
accorgimenti	accorgimento	NOUN	S	obl
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
occlusa	occludere	VERB	V	conj
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
canna	canna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
espellere	espellere	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
proiettile	proiettile	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
costantemente	costantemente	ADV	B	advmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armaiolo	armaiolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
scenico	scenico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
apporrà	apporre	VERB	V	conj
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
punzone	punzone	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	conj
chiunque	chiunquo	PRON	PR	nmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comodato	comodato	ADJ	A	conj
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiata	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comodato	comodato	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Armi	Armi	PROPN	SP	nmod
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
catalogate	catalogare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	obj
canne	canere	VERB	V	conj
sprovviste	sprovvista	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigle	sigle	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
quattrocentomila	quattrocentomila	PRON	PR	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	A	amod
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esporta	esportare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commercia	commercia	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pone	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
cede	cedere	VERB	V	conj
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
canne	canere	VERB	V	conj
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	dep
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
canne	canere	VERB	V	conj
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomila	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
porta	portare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
aperto	aperto	VERB	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	obl
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
canne	canere	VERB	V	conj
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
cancella	cancello	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V_PC	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
distintivi	distintivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segni	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prototipo	prototipo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Banco	Banco	PROPN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12-sexiesdecies	12-sexiesdecies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3a	3a	ADJ	NO	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
865	865	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
f	f	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
norme	norma	NOUN	S	appos
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concerna	concernare	VERB	V	advcl
armi	arma	NOUN	V_PC	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
decimo	decimo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citata	citata	NOUN	S	nmod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ottavo	ottavo	ADJ	NO	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
limitato	limitato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indulto	indulto	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4a	4a	AUX	V	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
amnistia	amnistia	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1989	1989	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nmod
fabbrica	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
esplodente	esplodente	ADV	A	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifica	modificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuti	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
classificati	classificare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
esplodenti	esplodente	ADJ	A	amod
titolari	titolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sperimentazione	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	conj
condotta	condurre	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giornaliere	giornaliere	VERB	V	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giornaliere	giornaliere	VERB	V	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punite	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punite	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligate	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obj
registro	registro	ADJ	A	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
rifiutano	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingiustificatamente	ingiustificatamente	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
È	essere	AUX	VA	cop
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
denunziate	denunziato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	obl
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
cartucce	cartuccia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pallini	pallino	NOUN	S	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fucili	fucile	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
caccia	caccia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Requisiti	Requisiti	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
47	47	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giornaliero	giornaliero	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
adibiti	adibito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
47	47	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
100	100	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
101	101	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
seguire	seguire	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
osserva	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Distrazione	distrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
distrae	distrae	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottrae	sottrae	PROPN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
esplosivi	esplosivo	ADJ	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
genere	genere	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sovvertire	sovvertire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collettività	collettività	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attentati	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
286	286	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
306	306	NUM	N	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Armi	Armi	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
34	34	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicarsi	pubblicarre si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verranno	venire	AUX	VA	aux
specificati	specificare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Vigilanza	Vigilanza	PROPN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
direttori	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
munirsi	munire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rilasciarsi	rilasciare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
seno	seno	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
presidenti	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	xcomp
costantemente	costantemente	ADV	B	advmod
aggiornati	aggiornato	ADJ	A	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calibro	calibro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nazionalità	nazionalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
richiamo	richiamo	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
legittimano	legittimare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nominativi	nominativo	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzatori	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
frequenze	frequenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
giornalmente	giornalmente	ADV	B	advmod
annotarsi	annotare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
impiegate	impiegato	NOUN	S	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orari	orario	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
esercitazioni	esercitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esibiti	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
appongono	appongere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
qualvolta	qualvolta	ADV	S	obl
procedono	procede	VERB	V	parataxis
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
presidenti	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tiro	tiro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
segno	segno	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
vidimazione	vidimazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
44	44	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
porto	porto	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	dep
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Vigilanza	Vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
raccolte	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
musei	museo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salva	Salva	PROPN	SP	flat:name
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nsubj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	conj
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	acl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1939	1939	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1089	1089	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
direttori	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
musei	museo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
morali	morale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
collezioni	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
collezioni	collezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rare	rare	VERB	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
antiche	antico	PRON	A	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiali	materiale	NOUN	S	nmod
custoditi	custodire	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	ADJ	B	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
obbligate	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
curare	curare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
puntuale	puntuale	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicandone	comunicandone	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
questore	questore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
compilazione	compilazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aggiornamenti	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esibiti	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
appongono	appongere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
qualvolta	qualvolta	ADV	S	obl
procedono	procede	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
musei	museo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescriggere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cimeli	cimere li	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
musei	museo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
antiche	antico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
versate	versato	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direzioni	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
artiglieria	artiglieria	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distrutte	distruvere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	nmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovrintendente	sovrintendente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
gallerie	galleria	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
riconosciute	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
storico	storico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
artistico	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolte	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovrintendenza	sovrintendenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gallerie	galleria	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corpi	Corpi	NOUN	S	obl
armati	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Aste	aste	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
aste	asta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
duecentomila	duecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	conj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
triplicate	triplicare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giudizio	Giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanatorie	Sanatorie	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
denunciare	denunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	advmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ottemperino	ottemperare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
data	data	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punibili	punibile	VERB	S	ROOT
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegnano	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	conj
micidiali	micidiale	ADJ	A	amod
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
895	895	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
497	497	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
393	393	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
infine	infine	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
quanti	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
detengono	detengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denunzia	denunzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
armi	arma	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
impropriamente	impropriamente	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
provvedano	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obl
prescritti	prescritto	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	ROOT
TRANSITORIE	TRANSITORIE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammesse	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritte	prescritto	ADJ	A	obl
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contrassegnata	contrassegnare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
catalogo	catalogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sparo	sparo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
catalogate	catalogato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
importate	importare	VERB	V	conj
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
matricola	matricola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
38	38	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
giocattoli	giocattolo	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
decorso	decorso	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
39	39	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entro	entro	NOUN	S	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	obl
straordinaria	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cedute	cedere	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	conj
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
guerra	guerra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1940	1940	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
635	635	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	conj
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esplosivi	esplosivo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
innovato	innovare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
497	497	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munita	munire	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserta	insrire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarla	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farla	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
LEONE	LEONE	PROPN	SP	conj
MORO	MORO	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
GUI	GUI	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
REALE	REALE	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

REALE	REALE	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep