Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
crescere	crescere	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
educato	educare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
indigenza	indigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
ostacolo	ostacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aiuto	aiuto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostengono	sostenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
nuclei	nucleo	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
educato	educare	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opinione	opinione	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzano	organizzare	VERB	V	conj
corsi	corso	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	conj
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
incontri	incontro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	ROOT
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crescita	crescita	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eduzione	eduzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
vivere	vivere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
crescere	crescere	VERB	V	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
educato	educare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
distinzione	distinzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
etnia	etnia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
religione	religione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
culturale	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
I-BIS	I-BIS	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	ROOT
AFFIDAMENTO	AFFIDAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	conj
MINORE	MINORE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
privo	privo	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonostante	nonostante	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aiuto	aiuto	NOUN	S	conj
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preferibilmente	preferibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurargli	assicurare gli	VERB	V_PC	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
affettive	affettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
bisogno	bisogno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1.1	1.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistente	assistente	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sensibilizzazione	sensibilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidatari	affidatario	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
prioritaria	prioritario	ADJ	A	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
preferibilmente	preferibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nsubj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
private	privato	ADJ	A	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
rivestono	rivestere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
cariche	carica	ADJ	A	obj
rappresentative	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fanno	fare	VERB	V	conj
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	il	PRON	PC	obj
gestiscono	gestisce	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	NOUN	A	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
coniuge	coniugere	VERB	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistente	assistente	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
porre	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
espressamente	espresso	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverire	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
superato	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
caratterizzate	caratterizzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
interpersonali	interpersonale	ADJ	A	amod
analoghi	analogare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Conferenza	conferenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definiscono	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
standard	standard	NOUN	S	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	conj
periodicamente	periodicamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
tutelari	tutelaro	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
affidato	affidato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
X	X	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provveda	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	dep
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
legali	legale	ADJ	S	amod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gratuitamente	gratuito	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
riprendano	riprendare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fissare	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	xcomp
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
rende	rende	NOUN	S	nsubj
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
specificatamente	specificatamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
motivazioni	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	acl
costantemente	costantemente	ADV	B	advmod
informati	informare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
indugio	indugio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	NOUN	S	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presumibile	presumibile	ADJ	A	amod
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
evoluzione	evoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
presumibile	presumibile	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
rapportabile	rapportabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
complesso	complesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
volti	volre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
prorogabile	prorogabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
rechi	recare	VERB	V	advcl
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiederne	richiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuta	venire	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
rechi	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prolungato	prolungato	NOUN	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
adottabile	adottabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistendo	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nsubj
affidataria	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
chieda	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
poterlo	potere lo	AUX	VM_PC	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ccomp
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legami	legame	NOUN	S	nmod
affettivi	affettivo	ADJ	A	amod
significativi	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
duraturo	duraturo	ADJ	A	conj
consolidatosi	consolidatoso	ADJ	V_PC	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
affidataria	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
faccia	faccia	NOUN	S	obl
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	compound
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
tutelata	tutelato	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rispondente	rispondente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
positive	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
affettive	affettive	ADJ	A	amod
consolidatesi	consolidatendere	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
documentate	documentato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ascoltato	ascoltare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
capace	capace	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-quinquies	5-quinquies	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
rimasto	rimasto	NOUN	S	nmod
privo	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cagionata	cagionare	VERB	V	acl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divorziato	divorziare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cessata	cessato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
legata	legare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
passato	passato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
affettiva	affettire	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	appos
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	AUX	V	aux
privilegiando	privilegiare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
affettive	affettivo	ADJ	A	amod
consolidatesi	consolidatendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	ADV	B	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sorelle	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	aux
assicurando	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	nsubj
affettiva	affettire	ADJ	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-sexies	5-sexies	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-quinquies	5-quinquies	PROPN	SP	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	obj
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
studio	studio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
intervenute	intervenuta	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	NOUN	S	obl
tribunale	tribunale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evoluzione	evoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADV	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronuncia	pronuncia	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
333	333	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
affidante	affidante	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinari	ordinario	NOUN	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
scolastica	scolastico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
collocataria	collocatario	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convocati	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
affidato	affidato	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
educativo	educativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agevola	agevolare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatari	affidataro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
ospitati	ospitare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intervengono	intervengere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
aiuto	aiuto	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
affidataria	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
333	333	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rivelati	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
inefficaci	inefficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
collaborato	collaborare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
affida	affido	ADJ	A	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indico	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	obl:agent
collocatario	collocatario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nominato	nominato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
periodicità	periodicità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
mantenuti	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
progetto	progetto	NOUN	S	nmod
predisposto	predisposto	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scelte	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
demandate	demandare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
decaduti	decadere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collocatario	collocatario	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	V	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
nominativo	nominativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	conj
collocatario	collocatario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
coniugi	coniuge	PROPN	SP	obl
uniti	unire	VERB	SP	flat:name
in	in	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sussistere	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	compound
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
affettivamente	affettivo	ADV	B	advmod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
capaci	capace	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
educare	educare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruire	istruire	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendano	intendare	VERB	V	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
requisito	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
convissuto	convissere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativo	continuativo	ADJ	A	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
accerti	accerti	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stabilità	stabilità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
derogati	derogare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
accerti	accerte	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivare	VERB	A	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
evitabile	evitabile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
preclusa	precluso	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
superato	superare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
adottivi	adottivo	NOUN	A	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguardi	riguardo	ADJ	A	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fratello	fratello	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sorella	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consentite	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
adozioni	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
preferenziale	preferenziale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	obj
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fratello	fratello	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottando	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
handicappate	handicappato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
handicap	handicap	NOUN	S	obl
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
bilanci	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottati	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	ADJ	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presta	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
compia	compia	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottando	adottando	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
DICHIARAZIONE	DICHIARAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ADOTTABILITÀ	ADOTTABILITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
privi	privo	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedervi	provvedere vi	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
transitorio	transitorio	NOUN	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
rifiutano	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
offerte	offrire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
79-bis	79-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
ingiustificato	ingiustificare	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
fin	fino	ADP	E	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
segnalare	segnalare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	obl
presto	presto	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengano	venire	AUX	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
semestralmente	semestralmente	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	VA	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
collocati	collocato	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
località	località	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
psicofisiche	psicofisico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
segnalati	segnalato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collocati	collocare	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privare	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
affidataria	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificandone	specificandone	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
informativa	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privare	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
straordinarie	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
parente	parente	ADV	S	dep
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	parataxis
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
protragga	protraggira	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
affidamenti	affidamente	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uguale	uguale	ADJ	A	amod
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
affidi	affidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
parente	parente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnalazione	segnalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dispone	dispone	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occorrenza	occorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
approfonditi	approfondito	VERB	V	obl
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
vissuto	vivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vive	vivere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvertiti	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
significativi	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
informa	informare	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
provvedano	provvedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistiti	assistire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
istruttorie	istruttorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
collocamento	collocamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgente	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocare	revocare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	xcomp
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
adottati	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	compound
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
deceduti	deceduto	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	conj
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
significativi	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	advcl
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
paternità	paternità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maternità	maternità	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
giudizialmente	giudizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	parataxis
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	ccomp
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affermando	affermare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
uno	uno	PRON	PI	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	parataxis
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
semprechè	semprechè	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frattempo	frattempo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
conveniente	conveniente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
permanendo	permanere	VERB	V	advcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconoscibilità	riconoscibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedicesimo	sedicesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
menzionate	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedicesimo	sedicesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedicesimo	sedicesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ove	Ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
sospenda	sospenda	VERB	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinvii	rinvii	VERB	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiararsi	dichiarare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
chiusa	chiusa	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussista	sussista	NOUN	S	obl
abbandono	abbandono	ADJ	A	amod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
trascorrono	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
entrambi	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
presunti	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalere	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
delle	di	DET	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Intervenuta	intervenuta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
paternità	paternità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maternità	maternità	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	conj
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
segua	seguire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
divenuta	divenuto	ADJ	A	amod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
12	12	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
consta	constare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
significativi	significativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	aux
nota	noto	ADJ	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sé	sé	PRON	PC	fixed
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
risiedano	risiedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dalla	da il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
delegata	delegare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
delegata	delegare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Udite	Udite	ADJ	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impartisce	impartiscere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilendo	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	ADJ	A	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	VERB	V_PC	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
validi	valido	ADJ	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alimenti	alimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	E_RD	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
13	13	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irreperibili	irreperibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conosciuta	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
convocazione	convocazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
143	143	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previe	previa	NOUN	S	conj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
da	da	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
emerse	emerso	ADJ	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl:agent
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riuscire	riuscire	VERB	V	ccomp
utile	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
adottino	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
convocati	convocare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dimostrato	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
persistere	persistere	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
materiale	materiale	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ovviarvi	ovviare vi	VERB	V_PC	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
impartite	impartire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rimaste	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
inadempiute	inadempiere	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provata	provare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irrecuperabilità	irrecuperabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriali	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
ragionevole	ragionevole	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
esista	esista	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
esteso	esteso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaurita	esaurire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
esteso	esteso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
avanti	avanti	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
trascritta	trascritto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
conservato	conservare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esista	esista	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
20	20	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
raggiungimento	raggiungimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
venute	venere	VERB	V	advcl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	S	nmod
AFFIDAMENTO	AFFIDAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PREADOTTIVO	PREADOTTIVO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Coloro	coloro	PRON	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specificando	specificare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	obj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
handicappate	handicappato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibile	ammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	amod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	PRON	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dia	dare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
aditi	adito	VERB	V	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istruttori	istruttore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tribunali	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
richieste	richiestere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
previamente	previamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrendo	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associati	associato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
handicap	handicap	NOUN	S	obl
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
avviate	avviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concludersi	concludere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
educare	educare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	S	nsubj
desiderano	desiderano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
riportare	riportare	VERB	V	conj
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
patologie	patologia	NOUN	S	obl
oncologiche	oncologico	ADJ	A	amod
pregresse	pregresse	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorsi	trascorrere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patologia	patologia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
recidive	recidivo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricadute	ricaduto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
patologia	patologia	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
insorta	insorto	ADJ	A	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ventunesimo	ventunesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
concludersi	concludere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sceglie	scegliere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
coppie	coppia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
maggiormente	maggiormente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	ADJ	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omessa	omessare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	NOUN	S	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
indugio	indugio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinandone	determinandorre	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
manifestare	manifestare	VERB	V	ROOT
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coppia	coppia	NOUN	S	obl
prescelta	prescelto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
informare	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emersi	emere si	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedenti	richiedente	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annotato	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
vigila	vigila	NUM	B	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consultoriali	consultoriale	ADJ	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertate	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convoca	convocare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidatari	affidataro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
psicologo	psicologo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenute	ritenere	ADJ	V	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superabili	superabilo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Debbono	Debbono	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentatore	presentatore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidatari	affidataro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentatore	presentatore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatari	affidatario	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotato	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELLA	DELLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
DICHIARAZIONE	DICHIARAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ADOZIONE	ADOZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	appos
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
manifestare	manifestare	VERB	V	ROOT
espresso	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coppia	coppia	NOUN	S	nmod
prescelta	prescelto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prolungato	prolungato	NOUN	S	nmod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	V	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
affidatari	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
muore	morire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diviene	divenire	VERB	V	conj
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	xcomp
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
deceduto	deceduto	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
affidatari	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	VERB	V	cop
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverso	avverso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esperito	esperire	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
ritenuto	ritenere	ADJ	V	amod
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
esteso	esteso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
Cassazione	Cassazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
divenuta	divenuto	VERB	V	acl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
trascritta	trascritto	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
annota	annotare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
definitività	definitività	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
producono	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
definitività	definitività	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	advcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
nato	nascere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
moglie	moglie	NOUN	S	nmod
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	A	nsubj
matrimoniali	matrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informato	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	parataxis
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
ritengono	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
paternità	paternità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maternità	maternità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
anagrafe	anagrafe	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privato	privato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	amod
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rifiutarsi	rifiutare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
provenga	provenga	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
matrimoniali	matrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	DET	E	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	V	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovati	comprovato	ADJ	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduta	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
ospedaliera	ospedaliero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
presidio	presidio	NOUN	S	conj
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
venticinque	venticinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
raggiunta	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comprovati	comprovato	ADJ	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
salute	salute	NOUN	S	obl
psico	psico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ascolto	ascolto	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	ccomp
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
turbamento	turbamento	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obl
psico	psico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
fisico	fisico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Definita	Definita	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiesta	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Fatto	Fare	VERB	S	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
deceduti	decedere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divenuti	divenuto	NOUN	S	conj
irreperibili	irreperibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Aja	Aja	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
29	29	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29-bis	29-bis	PROPN	FC	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
dichiari	dichiarare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dover	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
carenza	carenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associati	associato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
solidarietà	solidarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	ADJ	A	amod
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazioni	motivazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attitudine	attitudine	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sarebbero	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29-bis	29-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sente	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirare	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	nsubj
approfondimenti	approfondimente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
attestante	attestante	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ha	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	obl:agent
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
favorire	favorire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
ascolto	ascolto	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenute	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
incidano	incidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
reclamabili	reclamabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
739	739	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
740	740	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirare	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
incarico	incarico	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
curare	curare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	ADJ	A	amod
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	ROOT
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
curare	curare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirare	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
inizierà	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
concrete	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
prospettive	prospettiva	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
intrattiene	intrattiene	ADV	B	advmod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettendo	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
allegata	allegare	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
formulino	formulare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
raccoglie	raccogliere	VERB	V	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curando	curare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esperienze	esperienza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
trasferisce	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	ADJ	A	amod
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informandoli	informandolo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistendoli	assistendolo	NOUN	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
scritto	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
incontro	incontro	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	in	PRON	PC	iobj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
firme	firma	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
svolgendo	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richieste	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticazione	autenticazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
firme	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aspiranti	aspirante	ADJ	A	amod
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	parataxis
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiegato	impiegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autentica	autentica	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segretario	segretario	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorda	concordare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opportunità	opportunità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prende	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
comunicandone	comunicandone	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approva	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
affidare	affidare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
futuri	futuro	ADJ	A	amod
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettendo	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
certifica	certificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
affidatari	affidataro	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	ADJ	NO	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	L	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	compound
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	ROOT
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
compagnia	compagnia	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
futuri	futuro	ADJ	A	amod
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
adottivo	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
fin	fino	ADP	E	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

n	n	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
certifica	certifico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	L	DET	RD	obj
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuti	ricevuto	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
incaricato	incaricato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
emerge	emergere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
determini	determino	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nato	nascere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodursi	produre si	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertita	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produca	produca	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	PRON	PC	obj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	Convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
collaborano	collaborano	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
h	h	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciano	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
visto	visto	NOUN	V	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accompagnati	accompagnare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	ADJ	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
visto	visto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Coloro	coloro	PRON	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accompagnato	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
immediato	immediare	ADJ	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
segnalano	segnalare	VERB	A	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prenda	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
migliore	migliore	ADJ	A	amod
collocazione	collocazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	obl
bellici	bellico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calamità	calamità	NOUN	S	conj
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	conj
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
oggettivo	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
frontiera	frontiera	NOUN	S	nmod
segnalano	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
accompagnano	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
consentite	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
lo	il	PRON	PC	obj
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37-bis	37-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prenda	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
gode	godere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	obl
italiano	italiano	NOUN	S	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	NUM	N	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistono	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
affidatari	affidataro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
segnalando	segnalare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozioni	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
i	i	ADJ	NO	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
h	h	X	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
perfezionarsi	perfezionare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
regolano	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accolto	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tuttora	tuttora	ADV	B	advmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	ccomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	A	amod
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
esprimere	esprimere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
raggiunto	raggiungere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
alteri	alterare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
equilibrio	equilibrio	NOUN	S	obj
psico	psico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
emotivo	emotivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
psicologo	psicologo	NOUN	S	nmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Competente	competente	ADJ	A	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aspiranti	aspirare	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
adottiva	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	conj
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	PROPN	SP	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
spirito	spirito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	Convenzione	PROPN	SP	nmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obj
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
adottivo	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aderente	aderere	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
firmatario	firmatario	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
efficaci	efficace	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determini	determinare	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nato	nascere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridici	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
adottive	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettate	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
h	h	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostrino	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
soggiornato	soggiornare	VERB	V	acl
continuativamente	continuativamente	ADV	B	advmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avervi	avere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
anamnesi	anamnese	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
valgono	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37-bis	37-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
adozioni	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruoli	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidenza	Presidenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sviluppare	sviluppare	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
rete	rete	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vigilano	vigilare	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obj
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
promuovono	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
protocolli	protocollo	NOUN	S	nmod
operativi	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
stabili	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
minorili	minorile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
istituire	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	VERB	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
svolga	Svolga	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
coppie	coppia	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiedano	richiedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provinciale	provinciale	ADJ	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principi	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
delegate	delegare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conservarla	conservare la	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
debbono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
composti	composto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
morali	morale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apporto	apporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
psicologico	psicologico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	NOUN	S	obl
albo	albo	PROPN	A	amod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sostenere	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
organizzativa	organizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
regione	regione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agire	agire	VERB	V	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasparente	trasparente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
metodologia	metodologia	NOUN	S	conj
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificabile	verificabile	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
operare	operare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
discriminazioni	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
aspirano	aspirare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
discriminazioni	discriminazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
ideologico	ideologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
religioso	religioso	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impegnarsi	impegnare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infanzia	infanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preferibilmente	preferibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
governative	governativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sussidiarietà	sussidiarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELL'	DELL'	NOUN	S	dep
ESPATRIO	ESPATRIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
MINORI	MINORI	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	case
SCOPO	SCOPO	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ADOZIONE	ADOZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
40	40	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
residenti	residente	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
console	console	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
inoltra	inoltro	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	obl
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
centrali	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
resto	resto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
41	41	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
console	console	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	amod
risiedono	risiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	obj
vigila	vigila	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausilio	ausilio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
insorgano	insorgare	VERB	V	advcl
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ambientamento	ambientamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
affidatari	affidataro	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifichino	verifichare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatti	fare	VERB	V	advcl
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
console	console	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
console	console	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obj
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	nmod
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
console	console	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
42	42	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
affidato	affidato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
43	43	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
36	36	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competente	competente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenti	conseguente	NOUN	S	obj
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	compound
temporanei	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimpatrio	rimpatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	nmod
ADOZIONE	ADOZIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IN	IN	ADP	E	case
CASI	CASI	PROPN	SP	nmod
PARTICOLARI	PARTICOLARI	PROPN	SP	flat:name


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	S	nmod
I	i	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DELL'	DELL'	NOUN	S	det
ADOZIONE	ADOZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj

IN	IN	ADP	E	case
CASI	CASI	PROPN	SP	nmod
PARTICOLARI	PARTICOLARI	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	amod
SUOI	SUOI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
EFFETTI	EFFETTI	PROPN	SP	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unite	unire	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
preesistente	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
duraturo	duraturo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
maturato	maturare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prolungato	prolungato	NOUN	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	aux
orfano	orfare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
padre	padre	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
adottivo	adottivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
constatata	constatato	ADJ	A	amod
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
coniugato	coniugare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
coniugata	coniugato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
separata	separato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	SP	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
quattordicesimo	quattordicesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottando	adottando	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	PRON	RD	det
adottando	adottare	VERB	V	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	xcomp
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
legale	legale	NOUN	S	xcomp
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserlo	essere lo	PRON	V_PC	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minorazione	minorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
negato	negare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	iobj
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obj
ingiustificato	ingiustificato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronunziare	pronunziare	VERB	V	ROOT
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rifiutato	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
esercenti	esercente	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	advcl
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esprimerlo	esprimere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Finchè	Finchè	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanata	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tanto	tanto	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	ADV	B	advmod
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottando	adottare	NOUN	S	dep
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
revocare	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
muore	morire	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
spettano	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	PRON	PI	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
istruirlo	istruire lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
educarlo	educare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
prescritto	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impiegarne	impiegare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
investirne	investire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
fruttifero	fruttifero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
382	382	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmetterlo	trasmettere lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
X	X	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
omette	ometto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
inventario	inventario	ADJ	A	amod
infedele	infedele	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
privato	privare	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
50	50	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	parataxis
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
circa	circa	ADP	E	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
conveniente	conveniente	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripreso	riprendere	VERB	V	ccomp
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
attentato	attentare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ascendenti	ascendente	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
colpevole	colpevole	ADJ	A	xcomp
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
punibile	punibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
restrittiva	restrittivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	ADV	S	nsubj
muore	morire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attentato	attentato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
devolverebbe	devolverebbe	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	advmod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
52	52	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	ADV	B	obl:agent
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	advmod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	appos
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
conveniente	conveniente	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripreso	riprendere	VERB	V	ccomp
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
tutelare	tutelare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
53	53	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
incombenti	incombente	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
54	54	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
cessano	cessare	VERB	A	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
passa	passare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunziata	pronunziare	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	B	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
55	55	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
294	294	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
295	295	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
299	299	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
300	300	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
304	304	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
56	56	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competente	competente	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciarsi	pronunciare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottando	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
munita	munire	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
313	313	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
314	314	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
57	57	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	compound
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
realizza	realizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
preminente	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovrà	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riguardare	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
affettiva	affettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
educare	educare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istruire	istruire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economica	economico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
desidera	desiderare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
MODIFICHE	MODIFICHE	PROPN	S	nmod
AL	AL	ADP	E_RD	case
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DEL	DEL	ADP	E_RD	case
LIBRO	lIBRO	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
DEL	DEL	ADP	SP	case
CODICE	CODICE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
CIVILE	CIVILE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
intitolazione	intitolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
59	59	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
intitolazione	intitolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
60	60	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ART	ART	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

299	299	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
antepone	antepone	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	PRON	PP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	acl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ccomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nsubj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marito	marito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuta	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
donna	donna	NOUN	S	obl:agent
maritata	maritato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marito	marito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
62	62	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
307	307	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ART	ART	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

307	307	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Revoca	revoca	NOUN	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
indegnità	indegnità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottante	adottante	ADV	B	obl:agent
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
63	63	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
intitolazione	intitolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituita	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
64	64	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
312	312	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ART	ART	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

312	312	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Accertamenti	accertamenti	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adempiute	adempiere	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
conviene	convenire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottando	adottando	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
65	65	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
313	313	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
ART	ART	PROPN	SP	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

313	313	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
omessa	omessare	VERB	V	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
far	fare	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
adottante	adottante	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adottando	adottando	NOUN	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
reclamo	reclamo	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
66	66	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituiti	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	acl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
trascritta	trascritto	PRON	PI	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotata	annotare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
67	67	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
301	301	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
302	302	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
303	303	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
308	308	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
310	310	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

NORME	NORME	PROPN	SP	obl
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
PENALI	PENALI	PROPN	S	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
TRANSITORIE	TRANSITORIE	PROPN	SP	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
68	68	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
90	90	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
171	171	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
194	194	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
250	250	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
252	252	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
262	262	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
264	264	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
316	316	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317-bis	317-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
330	330	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
332	332	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
333	333	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
334	334	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
335	335	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
371	371	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
69	69	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutele	tutele	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
emanati	emanare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
70	70	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
omettono	omettire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengano	venire	AUX	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
2.500.000	2.500.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privato	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
omettono	omettire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	xcomp
semestralmente	semestralmente	ADJ	S	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
ricoverati	ricoverato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistiti	assistito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
inesatte	inesatto	ADJ	V	acl
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000.000	5.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
71	71	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affida	affido	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	DET	RD	det
avvia	avvia	NOUN	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	appos
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adottabilità	adottabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
affidamenti	affidamente	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forense	forense	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
privati	privare	ADJ	A	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiata	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegnando	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettendo	promettere	VERB	V	conj
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accolgono	accolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
minori	minore	ADJ	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
definitività	definitività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
affidamenti	affidamente	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ROOT
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mediazione	mediazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000.000	5.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
72	72	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
procurarsi	procurare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
danaro	danaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introduce	introdurre	VERB	V	parataxis
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	obj
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cittadini	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consegnando	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
promettendo	promettere	VERB	V	conj
danaro	danaro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accolgono	accolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
stranieri	straniero	NOUN	S	nsubj
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
definitività	definitività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
affidamenti	affidamente	NOUN	S	obj
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottivi	adottivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
tutelare	tutelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
72-bis	72-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	det
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	aux
previamente	previamente	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
legali	legale	ADJ	S	nmod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	compound
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
responsabili	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
agenzie	agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
trattano	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
pratiche	pratica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Fatti	Fatti	NOUN	S	ROOT
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	advmod
diminuite	diminuite	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
73	73	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
essendone	essendonere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
atta	attare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rintracciare	rintracciare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivela	rivelare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
adottivo	adottivo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
2.000.000	2.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	obl
preadottivo	preadottivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
74	74	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	NOUN	S	obl
tribunale	tribunale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
coniugata	coniugato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nato	nascere	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
genitore	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
veridicità	veridicità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	ADV	B	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondati	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
264	264	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
76	76	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alle	A il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
stranieri	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
77	77	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
404	404	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
affiliazioni	affiliazione	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pronunciate	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazioni	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
78	78	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affiliazione	affiliazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
filiazione	filiazione	NOUN	S	conj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordata	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	nsubj
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
79	79	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	semprechè	DET	T	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
risponda	risponda	ADJ	V	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affiliato	affiliato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affiliati	affiliato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
minorenni	minorenne	ADJ	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
epoca	epoca	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1)(4	1)(4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliato	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliati	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
discernimento	discernimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	A	nummod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliato	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
convivente	convivente	VERB	S	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affilianti	affilianto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
superato	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	PC	det
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliati	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	advcl
legittimi	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affilianti	affilianto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliato	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dodici	dodici	NUM	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	nmod
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
27	27	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
28	28	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nega	negare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnato	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
adottato	adottato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affiliato	affiliare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
maggiorenne	maggiorenire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
79-bis	79-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
segnala	segnalare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indigenza	indigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuclei	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
educato	educare	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
80	80	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
familiari	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	ccomp
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidatario	affidatario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
affidatarie	affidatario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltativa	facoltativo	ADJ	A	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
permessi	permesso	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
riposi	riposo	DET	DI	conj
giornalieri	giornaliere	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	obl
biologici	biologico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
minori	minore	ADJ	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
affidamento	affidamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fondare	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
81	81	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figlio	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
82	82	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardi	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tassa	tasso	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADV	B	mark
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
annue	annue	ADJ	A	amod
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000.000	100.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1589	1589	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
1983	1983	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	conj
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
apportare	apportare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
occorrenti	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munita	munire	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserta	insrire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarla	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farla	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Data	data	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1983	1983	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PERTINI	PERTINI	PROPN	SP	nmod
FANFANI	FANFANI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
DARIDA	DARIDA	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
COLOMBO	COLOMBO	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ROGNONI	ROGNONI	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
FORTE	FORTE	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
GORIA	GORIA	PROPN	SP	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

DARIDA	DARIDA	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep