Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COSSIGA	COSSIGA	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
DE	DE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
MITA	MITA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
VASSALLI	VASSALLI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
Visto	Visto	PROPN	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

VASSALLI	VASSALLI	PROPN	SP	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
01	01	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
entrano	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
COSSIGA	COSSIGA	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DE	DE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
MITA	MITA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
VASSALLI	VASSALLI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	vedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	appos
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

VASSALLI	VASSALLI	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	S	flat:name
PRIMA	PRIMA	ADV	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
LIBRO	lIBRO	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	primo	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SOGGETTI	SOGGETTI	PROPN	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	RD	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
GIUDICE	GIUDICE	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	i	ADJ	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
GIURISDIZIONE	GIURISDIZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giurisdizione	Giurisdizione	PROPN	SP	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
risolve	risolvere	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risolve	risolvere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
incidentalmente	incidentalmente	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
penale	penale	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Questioni	Questione	NOUN	SP	nmod
pregiudiziali	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
seria	serio	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
COMPETENZA	COMPETENZA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
I	I	DET	NO	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	competenza	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	PROPN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
tentato	tentato	VERB	V	conj
omicidio	omicidio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rapina	rapina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
estorsione	estorsione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
mafioso	mafioso	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
consumati	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
579	579	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
580	580	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
584	584	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
doloso	doloso	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
586	586	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
588	588	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
593	593	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
XII	XII	ADJ	NO	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1967	1967	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
962	962	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
d	d	ADP	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
consumati	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600	600	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
602	602	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
pace	pace	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consumato	consumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
consumazione	consumazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
tentato	tentato	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
suppletive	suppletivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
noto	noto	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nemmeno	nemmeno	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	competenza	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pluralità	pluralità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggior	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
371	371	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
determinarla	determinare la	VERB	V_PC	csubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
235	235	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	parataxis
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	csubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	parataxis
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
235	235	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiata	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
esercitava	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuto	venire	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiata	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11-bis	11-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiata	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obj
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
76-	76-	PROPN	SP	nummod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	conj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	DI	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	B	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
esecutive	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
disegno	disegno	NOUN	S	nmod
criminoso	criminoso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uni	uno	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
occultare	occultare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	PI	det:predet
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fra	fra	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	ROOT
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
militari	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
opera	opera	NOUN	S	compound
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
3	3	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	S	ROOT
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
erano	essere	AUX	V	cop
minorenni	minorenne	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
maggiorenni	maggiorenne	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
minorenne	minorenne	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
maggiorenne	maggiorenna	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	A	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	PROPN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	PRON	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	PROPN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificato	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fra	fra	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
contravvenzioni	contravvenzione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevata	elevare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimi	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevata	elevare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RIUNIONE	RIUNIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
SEPARAZIONE	SEPARAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROCESSI	PROCESSI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
pendenti	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	A	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
determini	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
pendono	pende	VERB	V	advcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
davalti	davalto	PRON	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	obj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	csubj
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	A	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mentre	mentre	CCONJ	CC	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	csubj
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
422	422	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	ADJ	A	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comparsi	compare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
incolpevole	incolpevole	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comparsi	compare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dibattimentale	dibattimentale	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
conclusa	concluso	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mentre	mentre	CCONJ	CC	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	xcomp
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	A	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	NOUN	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimesso	rimettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	S	advcl
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditezza	speditezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimenti	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riunione	riunione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PROVVEDIMENTI	PROVVEDIMENTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
SULLA	SULLA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
GIURISDIZIONE	GIURISDIZIONE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	E	CCONJ	CC	punct
SULLA	SULLA	PROPN	SP	nmod
COMPETENZA	COMPETENZA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
2	2	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepita	eccepito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
manchi	manco	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepita	eccepito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepita	eccepito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decisioni	Decisione	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
inappellabile	inappellabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24-bis	24-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos
pregiudiziale	pregiudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
manchi	manco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
rimette	rimette	VERB	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rimesso	rimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
diverso	diverso	PRON	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eccepito	eccepire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
riproporre	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolante	vincolare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportino	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giurisdizione	giurisdizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ripetibili	ripetibile	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
503	503	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Misure	misure	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	ROOT
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
incompetente	incompetente	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
317	317	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
321	321	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CONFLITTI	CONFLITTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
GIURISDIZIONE	GIURISDIZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
COMPETENZA	COMPETENZA	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
prendono	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusano	ricusare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	xcomp
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	advmod
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
contemporaneamente	contemporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
prendono	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusano	ricusare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	xcomp
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
analoghi	analogo	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cop
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudice	giudice	NOUN	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevale	prevale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	advmod
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
cessano	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	compound
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
rimette	rimette	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unita	unire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	DET	DD	det
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
conflitti	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decisi	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26	26	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
27	27	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CAPACITÀ	CAPACITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
COMPOSIZIONE	COMPOSIZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
GIUDICE	GIUDICE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
collegi	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegi	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegi	collegio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obj
giudicante	giudicante	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-bis	33-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attribuzioni	Attribuzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	PROPN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
331	331	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
334	334	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
335	335	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
420	420	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
429	429	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
431	431	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
432	432	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
433	433	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
433-bis	433-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
440	440	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
449	449	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452	452	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
513-	513-	NUM	N	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
564	564	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
600-sexies	600-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
puniti	punito	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
644	644	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
XI	XI	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	RD	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1952	1952	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
645	645	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attuativa	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
XII	XII	ADJ	NO	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
transitoria	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finale	finale	ADJ	A	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33-ter	33-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
33-ter	33-ter	ADJ	NO	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attribuzioni	Attribuzioni	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestate	contestare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
aggravanti	aggravante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	ROOT
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudica	giudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
33-bis	33-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-quater	33-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-quinquies	33-quinquies	NUM	A	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratica	monocratica	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
collegate	collegato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepita	eccepito	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ter	ter	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
mine	mine	NOUN	S	dep
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-sexies	33-sexies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	Inosservanza	PROPN	SP	nmod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedersi	procedere si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
550	550	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dì	dire	VERB	V	advcl
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
552	552	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
553	553	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
554	554	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
33-septies	33-septies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	Inosservanza	PROPN	SP	appos
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
instaurato	instaurare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
contestato	contestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
monocratico	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
420-ter	420-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
33-octies	33-octies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	appos
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-novies	33-novies	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33-nonies	33-nonies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Validità	Validità	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisite	acquisito	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
monocratica	monocratico	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invalidità	invalidità	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inutilizzabilità	inutilizzabilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompatibilità	Incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
gradi	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
126	126	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
283	283	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
conclusivo	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	conj
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	conj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
avverso	avverso	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
98)(94)(104	98)(94)(104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
313	313	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADP	E	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	conj
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
VII	VII	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	conj
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perito	perire	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	conj
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deliberato	deliberare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deliberare	deliberare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompatibilità	Incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
coniugio	coniugio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
separate	separare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuna	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
datore	datore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
consigli	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziarie	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
inimicizia	inimicizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
offeso	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiato	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

g	g	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
35	35	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	ROOT
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
seconda	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coniugio	coniugio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	parataxis
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

su	su	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
manifestato	manifestare	VERB	V	ROOT
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
convincimento	convincimento	NOUN	S	obj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorrere	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	xcomp
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conclusi	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	conj
nota	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	conj
nota	noto	ADJ	A	xcomp
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assieme	assieme	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	Procura	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Concorso	concorso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Competenza	Competenza	PROPN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
su	su	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
chiamati	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
aveva	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
addotti	addotto	ADJ	S	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	S	conj
infondati	infondato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	lo	DET	RD	det
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	S	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
avverso	avverso	ADP	E	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
proponibile	proponibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
611	611	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
sospenda	sospendare	VERB	V	ccomp
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
limiti	limitare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
ricusato	ricusato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
accolta	accolto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
astenutosi	astenutoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusato	ricusare	ADJ	A	conj
conservano	conservare	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
astenuto	astenuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
astenuto	astenuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannata	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
cinquecentomila	cinquecentomila	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
penale	penale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VIII	VIII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RIMESSIONE	RIMESSIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	case
PROCESSO	PROCESSO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	PRON	PD	appos
da	da	ADP	E	mark
turbare	turbare	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
eliminabili	eliminabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pregiudicano	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	conj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
sospetto	sospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	dep
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
allegati	allegato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
causa	causa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dello	di il	DET	E_RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
610	610	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	PI	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
riprendono	riprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
perviene	pervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovava	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Decisione	Decisione	PROPN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
610	610	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
unite	unito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
610	610	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
trasmette	trasmettere	NOUN	S	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	ccomp
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
190-bis	190-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accolto	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbero	essere	AUX	V	aux
loro	loro	PRON	PE	det:poss
spettati	spettato	VERB	V	acl:relcl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
originariamente	originariamente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannate	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguati	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Istituto	Istituto	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
statistica	statistica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indice	indice	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
famiglie	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
operai	operaio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificatasi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nuova	Nuova	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	obl
infondatezza	infondatezzare	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ccomp
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
infondatezza	infondatezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimessione	rimessione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rigettato	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
separato	separare	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
infondatezza	infondatezzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PUBBLICO	PUBBLICO	PROPN	SP	nmod
MINISTERO	MINISTERO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interrotto	interrurre	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Uffici	Uffici	PROPN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
distrettuale	distrettuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avocazione	avocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avocazione	avocazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I.	I.	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
settimo	settimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416	416	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12-bis	12-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immigrazione	immigrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416	416	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	acl
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
473	473	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
474	474	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
517-quater	517-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600	600	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
602	602	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
452-quaterdecies	452-quaterdecies	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
630	630	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	ADJ	B	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
distrettuale	distrettuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
giustificati	giustificato	NOUN	S	obl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
consumati	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
MAGGIO	MAGGIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2008	2008	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
LUGLIO	LUGLIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2008	2008	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
125	125	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
414-bis	414-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater	600-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	NOUN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-undecies	609-undecies	NOUN	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
615-ter	615-ter	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
615-quater	615-quater	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-bis	617-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-ter	617-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-quater	617-quater	NUM	N	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-quinquies	617-quinquies	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
617-sexies	617-sexies	NOUN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-bis	635-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-ter	635-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quater	635-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quater.1	635-quater.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
635-quinquies	635-quinquies	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
640-ter	640-ter	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
640-quinquies	640-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
52	52	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
decidono	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
decidono	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione.(90	cassazione.(90	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
astenuto	astenuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designato	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
autonomia	autonomia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
omette	ometto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	ROOT
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	appos
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
designa	designa	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contrasti	Contrasti	NOUN	S	nmod
negativi	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V_PC	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
designazio	designazio	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
negativo	negativo	ADJ	A	amod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54-bis	54-bis	NOUN	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contrasti	Contrasti	NOUN	S	nmod
positivi	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
richiedendogli	richiedendogli	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aderire	aderire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
regole	regola	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
risolto	risolvere	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54-ter	54-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contrasti	Contrasti	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministeri	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
criminalità	criminalità	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzata	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
54-bis	54-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
antiterrorismo	antiterrorismo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottati	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54-quater	54-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
369	369	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
369	369	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritengono	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
enunciando	enunciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sostegno	sostegno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	PC	obj
accolga	accogliere	DET	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	csubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
appartenga	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	VA	aux
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
54-ter	54-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
POLIZIA	POLIZIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
GIUDIZIARIA	GIUDIZIARIA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Funzioni	funzioni	PROPN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portati	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricercarne	ricercarno	VERB	V_PC	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
raccogliere	raccogliere	VERB	V	conj
quant'	quanti	DET	DD	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Svolge	Svolge	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delegata	delegare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
istituite	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
composte	comporre	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	cop
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ufficiali	Ufficiali	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salve	salve	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
commissari	commissaro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ispettori	ispettore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
sovrintendenti	sovrintendento	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	PI	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
sottufficiali	sottufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
forestale	forestale	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sindaco	sindaco	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comando	comando	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arma	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
carabinieri	carabiniere	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
guardie	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
guardie	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
guardie	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
attribuiscono	attribuiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nota	nota	NOUN	S	flat:name
redazionale	redazionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
correzioni	correzione	NOUN	S	obl
apportate	apportare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	obl
13/12/1988	13/12/1988	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
vacatio	vacatio	NOUN	S	nmod
legis	Legis	VERB	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
visualizzare	visualizzare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obj
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
accedendo	accedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versione	versione	NOUN	S	obl
pdf	pdf	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
dispone	disporre	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
istituite	istituito	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
organo	organo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Subordinazione	subordinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dirigono	diriere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
istituite	istituire	VERB	S	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabile	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	PRON	PR	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl:agent
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distolti	distogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
IMPUTATO	IMPUTATO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
447	447	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
conserva	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sino	sino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	conj
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	conj
esecutivo	esecutivo	NOUN	S	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
riassume	riassumere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riapertura	riapertura	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rescissione	rescissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
628-bis	628-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
61	61	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estendono	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
formare	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estende	estendere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
inutilizzabili	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rese	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
terapeutici	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ridurre	ridurre	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
commetta	commetta	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	advcl
sessuali	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
indizianti	indiziante	ADJ	V	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
emergono	emergere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reità	reità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
interrompe	interrompe	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvertendola	avvertendola	NOUN	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doveva	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dall'	da il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
64	64	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	A	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
libera	libero	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nsubj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenze	violenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
interrogata	interrogato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autodeterminazione	autodeterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
alterare	alterare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricordare	ricordare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvertita	avvertigere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a)le	a)le	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ccomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
seguirà	seguire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
renderà	rendare	VERB	V	ROOT
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concerne	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assumerà	assumare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
197-bis	197-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
302	302	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inutilizzabili	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
interrogata	interrogato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
interrogata	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concerne	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
interrogata	interrogato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
detti	detto	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
65	65	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
contesta	contestare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisa	precisare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
rende	rendere	NOUN	S	parataxis
noti	noto	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	A	amod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
lei	lei	PRON	PE	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivarne	derivare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gliene	glenire	VERB	V	conj
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Invita	Invita	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
utile	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
connotati	connotato	NOUN	S	obl
fisici	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
segni	segno	NOUN	S	conj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Verifica	Verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presente	presente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quant'	quanto	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
valere	valere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarlo	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ammonendolo	ammonendolo	NOUN	S	dep
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
espone	esponere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	PC	obj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
false	falso	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esatte	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
certa	certo	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apolide	apolide	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
ignota	ignoto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
privo	privo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
attualmente	attualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
passato	passato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportato	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
univoco	univoco	ADV	B	advmod
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
erronee	erronea	ADJ	S	amod
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attribuite	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rettificate	rettificare	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66-bis	66-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Verifica	Verifica	PROPN	SP	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
segnalato	segnalare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
antecedentemente	antecedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
67	67	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incertezza	Incertezza	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
minorenne	minorenne	ADJ	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
68	68	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Errore	Errore	PROPN	SP	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	A	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
69	69	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Morte	Morte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	A	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
erroneamente	erroneamente	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
70	70	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamenti	accertamenti	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
mentale	mentale	ADJ	A	amod
sopravvenuta	sopravvenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
coscientemente	coscientemente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
40	40	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
condurre	condurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	conj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	obl
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frattempo	frattempo	NOUN	S	obl
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
compie	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
cosciente	cosciente	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
392	392	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
71	71	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
mentale	mentale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tale	tale	PRON	A	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impedirne	impedire ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosciente	cosciente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
reversibile	reversibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ccomp
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designando	designare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	xcomp
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
disposti	disposto	ADJ	A	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	expl
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
72	72	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revoca	revoca	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadere	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ravvisi	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	menta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Analogamente	analogamente	NOUN	SP	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ripreso	riprendere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
mentale	mentale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosciente	cosciente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
72-bis	72-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
irreversibile	irreversibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
mentale	mentale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
tale	tale	PRON	A	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosciente	cosciente	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irreversibile	irreversibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
doversi	dovere si	AUX	VM_PC	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
73	73	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	menta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
appare	apparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
renderne	rendere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
psichiatrico	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rapido	rapido	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
mentali	mentale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
psichiatrico	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
ospedaliero	ospedaliero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	compound
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
informativa	informativa	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	xcomp
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	nmod
CIVILE	CIVILE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
RESPONSABILE	RESPONSABILE	PROPN	SP	appos
CIVILE	CIVILE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
CIVILMENTE	CIVILMENTE	PROPN	SP	conj
OBBLIGATO	OBBLIGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
PER	PER	PROPN	SP	case
LA	LA	DET	RD	det
PENA	PENA	PROPN	SP	nmod
PECUNIARIA	PECUNIARIA	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
74	74	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
recato	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
successori	successore	NOUN	S	obl
universali	universale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
75	75	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azione	azione	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
passata	passare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
prosegue	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
76	76	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
77	77	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentate	rappresentare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistite	assistire	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
danneggiato	danneggiato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
rappresenta	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiesta	chierre	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentata	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistita	assistire	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assunte	assure	ADV	B	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentite	sentito	ADJ	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
provochi	provoco	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danneggiato	danneggiato	NOUN	S	nmod
incapace	incapace	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finchè	DET	DI	det
subentri	subentro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
colui	colui	PRON	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
78	78	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
valgono	valere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarlo	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
giustificano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
122	122	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
79	79	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termine	termine	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ultimati	ultimare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
484	484	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
554-bis	554-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	parataxis
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
468	468	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
periti	perire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
80	80	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
introduttivi	introduttivo	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
ordinata	ordinato	ADJ	A	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
81	81	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
aperto	aprire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
82	82	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
conclusioni	conclusione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
523	523	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
promuove	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avvenuta	Avvenuta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
cagionato	cagionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
preclude	precludere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
83	83	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coimputati	coimputato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prosciolto	prosciogliere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	obl
tardi	tardi	ADV	B	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
valere	valere	VERB	V	ccomp
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizioni	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	dep
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
erronea	erroneo	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualche	qualche	DET	DI	det
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile.(91	civile.(91	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
288	288	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
84	84	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PQ	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	A	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
85	85	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
volontario	volontario	NOUN	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
77	77	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentando	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
468	468	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
liste	lista	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
periti	perire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
86	86	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
raccolti	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
recare	recare	VERB	V	advcl
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
651	651	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
654	654	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
87	87	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
aperto	aprire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rigettata	rigettare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
abbreviato	abbreviato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
88	88	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
3	3	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
89	89	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
civilmente	civilmente	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citata	citare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PERSONA	PERSONA	PROPN	SP	nmod
OFFESA	OFFESA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
REATO	REATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90	90	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	conj
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	amod
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interdetta	interdettare	VERB	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inabilitata	inabilitata	VERB	V	conj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
121	121	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
permangono	permangere	VERB	V	advcl
dubbi	dubbio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deceduta	decedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
legata	legare	VERB	V	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
affettiva	affettire	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
convivente	conviventa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90-bis	90-bis	PROPN	V_PC	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Informazioni	Informazione	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	nmod
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
querela	querela	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	conj
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarando	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
quater	quater	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADP	E	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domiciliazione	domiciliazione	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
quinquies	quinquies	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
domiciliato	domiciliare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insufficienza	insufficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	B	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvisata	avvisare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interpretazione	interpretazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risieda	risiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
diverso	divergere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivolgersi	rivolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	l	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citata	citare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obj
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	ADJ	A	amod
formula	formula	NOUN	S	nmod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuità	tenuità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

p	p	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	ROOT
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
case	casa	NOUN	S	conj
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
centri	centro	NOUN	S	conj
antiviolenza	antiviolenza	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
case	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
rifugio	rifugio	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
;)	;)	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	X	X	dep
-	-	NOUN	S	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concluso	concludere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
riparativo	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
comportamentali	comportamentale	ADJ	A	amod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90-bis.1	90-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
attuativo	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
134	134	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sin	sino	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
contatto	contatto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informata	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90-ter	90-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comunicazioni	Comunicazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausilio	ausilio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
emessi	emettere	NOUN	S	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
internato	internato	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volontaria	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
internato	internato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
tentata	tentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
572	572	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-ter	609-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-octies	609-octies	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
583-quinquies	583-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
576	576	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
577	577	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
90-quater	90-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizione	Condizione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunta	desunto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	conj
psichica	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
odio	odio	NOUN	S	conj
razziale	razziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
riconducibile	riconducibile	ADJ	A	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ambiti	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
criminalità	criminalità	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzata	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tratta	tratta	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esseri	essere	NOUN	S	nmod
umani	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
caratterizza	caratterizzare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
discriminazione	discriminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
affettivamente	affettivamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
psicologicamente	psicologicamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADJ	B	conj
dipendente	dipendente	VERB	V	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
91	91	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
lesi	lesi	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lucro	lucro	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciute	riconosciere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
lesi	lesi	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
92	92	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
lesi	lendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
inefficace	inefficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prestarlo	prestare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	conj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
93	93	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Intervento	Intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	E	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riconoscono	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
lesi	lese	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
giustificano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Unitamente	Unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produce	produrre	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
94	94	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
lesi	lendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
484	484	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
95	95	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
opporsi	oppore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	obl
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DIFENSORE	DIFENSORE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
96	96	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fermata	fermato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arrestata	arrestare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finché	SCONJ	CC	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
97	97	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rimasto	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
privo	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
Consigli	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
circondariali	circondariale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
predispongono	predispongere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	NOUN	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
centralizzato	centralizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professionisti	professionista	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	A	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	PROPN	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facenti	facenti	VERB	V	conj
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
forense	forense	ADJ	A	amod
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimità	prossimità	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reperibilità	reperibilità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
privi	privo	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
danno	dare	VERB	S	parataxis
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
nominativo	nominativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reperito	reperire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comparso	comparso	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
abbandonato	abbandonare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
designa	designa	VERB	A	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
sostituto	sostituto	VERB	V	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
nominativo	nominativo	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
designazione	designazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
sostituto	sostituto	VERB	V	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
98	98	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbienti	abbiente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
danneggiato	danneggiato	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbienti	abbiente	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
99	99	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estensione	Estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
competono	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservati	riservare	VERB	V	ccomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
togliere	togliere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
100	100	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
stanno	stare	VERB	VA	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munito	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticato	VERB	V	csubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
abilitata	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
margine	margine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autografia	autografia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	xcomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressa	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentata	rappresentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	DI	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
riservati	riservato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
importino	importare	VERB	A	acl:relcl
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contesa	contesa	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	xcomp
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
101	101	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
2	2	NUM	N	flat
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intervengono	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
93	93	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
102	102	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
assume	assumere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
103	103	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Garanzie	Garanzie	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentite	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imputati	imputare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuito	attribuito	VERB	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	mark
rilevare	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
tracce	traccia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricercare	ricercare	VERB	V	conj
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
specificamente	specificamere	ADJ	A	advmod
predeterminate	predeterminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
investigatori	investigatore	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	PRON	CS	fixed
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	advcl
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
accingersi	accingere si	VERB	V_PC	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
avvisa	avvisare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
forense	forense	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consigliere	consigliere	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	nmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
interviene	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestri	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
investigatori	investigatore	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	PRON	PE	det:poss
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	AP	det:poss
assistite	assistita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietati	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
riconoscibile	riconoscibile	ADJ	A	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritte	prescritto	NOUN	S	obl
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intercorsa	intercordere	VERB	V	advcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ausiliari	ausiliario	ADJ	A	amod
delegati	delegato	NOUN	S	amod
interrompono	interrompire	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conversazione	conversazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ccomp
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
vietate	vietato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sequestri	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
intercettate	intercettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neanche	neanche	ADV	BN	advmod
sommariamente	sommariamente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
104	104	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Colloqui	colloqui	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
fin	fin	ADP	E	case
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
arrestata	arrestare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fermata	fermare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
384	384	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	conj
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cautela	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dilazionare	dilazionare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arrestato	arrestato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fermato	fermato	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posto	porre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arrestato	arrestato	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
fermato	fermato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conoscono	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
105	105	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
forense	forense	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinari	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
disciplinare	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	ROOT
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
motivati	motivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
giustificati	giustificato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lealtà	lealtà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
probità	probità	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
interrompe	interrompe	VERB	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
106	106	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompatibilità	Incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	det
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
posizioni	posizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	AP	det:poss
incompatibili	incompatibile	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
indica	indico	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
espone	esponere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
rimuoverla	rimuoverla	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimossa	rimuovere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	lo	DET	RD	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
provvedendo	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
sostituzioni	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
97	97	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
collegato	collegare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
107	107	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
conferitogli	conferitoglo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	obj
rinuncia	rinunciare	VERB	V	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
finchè	finché	VERB	V_PC	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
108	108	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Termine	Termine	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbandono	abbandono	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
designato	designare	VERB	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
informarsi	informare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	obj
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ATTI	ATTI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
109	109	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
insediata	insediare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
minoranza	minoranza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
linguistica	linguistico	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuta	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	nsubj
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
minoranza	minoranza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
interrogato	interrogare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esaminato	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
madrelingua	madrelingua	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	NOUN	A	amod
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tradotti	tradurre	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
indirizzati	indirizzare	VERB	V	acl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
110	110	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	PD	parataxis
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
leggibilità	leggibilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
reperibilità	reperibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
redatti	redatto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
rispettano	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
redatti	redatto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertiti	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
opera	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
111	111	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Data	data	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
informatico	informatico	NOUN	A	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
descritta	descritto	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescriggere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilirsi	stabilire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
connessi	connesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	conj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sottoscrive	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
mano	mano	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cognome	cognome	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
firmare	firmare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
firmare	firmare	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
111-bis	111-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	SP	nmod
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
175-bis	175-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richieste	richiesta	VERB	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
assicura	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
111-ter	111-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fascicolo	fascicolo	PROPN	SP	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formati	formare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiornati	aggiornare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obj
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autenticità	autenticità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accessibilità	accessibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
leggibilità	leggibilità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interoperabilità	interoperabilità	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agevole	agevole	ADJ	A	amod
consultazione	consultazione	NOUN	S	conj
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
formati	formato	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convertiti	convertire	VERB	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convertiti	convertire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
elenco	elenco	ADJ	A	xcomp
dettagliato	dettagliare	VERB	V	acl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
immagine	immagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
redatti	redatto	NOUN	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	parataxis
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicoli	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivalgono	equivalgono	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
prive	privo	ADJ	A	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
112	112	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Surrogazione	surrogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fare	fare	VERB	V	csubj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
distrutto	distruggere	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
smarrito	smarrire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
recuperarlo	recuperare lo	VERB	V_PC	csubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posta	porre	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovrebbe	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trovarsi	trovare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consegnarla	consegnare la	VERB	V_PC	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl
gratuitamente	gratuito	ADV	B	advmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
113	113	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricostituzione	ricostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	csubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accerta	accerta	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
mancante	mancare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quale	quale	DET	DQ	det
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	obl
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricostituito	ricostituire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
minuta	minuta	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
mancante	mancare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricostituito	ricostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	S	acl:relcl
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuta	minuta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prescrivendone	prescrivendonere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovati	rinnovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
114	114	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
immagini	immagine	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concluse	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADP	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riprodotto	riprodovere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
61	61	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
celebrato	celebrare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
porte	porta	NOUN	S	obl
chiuse	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
472	472	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorsi	trascorsi	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivi	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
offendere	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
costume	costume	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
diffusione	diffusione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
causare	causare	VERB	V	conj
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immagine	immagine	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minorenni	minorenne	ADJ	A	amod
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offese	offendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
danneggiati	danneggiare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divenuti	divenere	VERB	V	advcl
maggiorenni	maggiorenne	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minorenne	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
minorenne	minorenne	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
portare	portare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immagine	immagine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
ripresa	riprendere	VERB	A	amod
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manette	manette	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polsi	polso	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coercizione	coercizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concluse	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADP	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
115	115	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Violazione	Violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salve	salve	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
329	329	NUM	N	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	aux
illecito	illecito	VERB	V	xcomp
disciplinare	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
potere	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinare	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
115-bis	115-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Garanzia	Garanzia	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presunzione	presunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
innocenza	innocenza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
colpevoli	colpevole	ADJ	A	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
irrevocabili	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presuppongono	presuppongere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
limita	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
riferimenti	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	ADJ	A	obl
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiederne	richiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
salvaguardare	salvaguardare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presunzione	presunzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
innocenza	innocenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	ADJ	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
116	116	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Copie	Copie	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificati	certificare	NOUN	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificati	certificare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl:agent
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advmod
indicato	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
venire	venire	VERB	V	ccomp
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituti	sostituto	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	ADJ	A	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
redatti	redatto	ADJ	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
117	117	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rigettare	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
antiterrorismo	antiterrorismo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371-bis	371-bis	NUM	N	nummod
accede	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
antiterrorismo	antiterrorismo	NOUN	S	conj
accede	accedere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
logiche	logico	ADJ	A	amod
dedicate	dedicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procure	procura	NOUN	S	obl
distrettuali	distrettuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
condivisa	condividere	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
antiterrorismo	antiterrorismo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
investigativa	investigativo	ADJ	A	amod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
diretto	dirigere	ADJ	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
automatizzata	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rigettare	rigettare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
coperte	copergere	VERB	S	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
118-bis	118-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copie	copia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
ritenute	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
connesse	connesso	VERB	V	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
delegati	delegare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
automatizzata	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
119	119	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muto	muto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sordomuto	sordomere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
muto	muto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	conj
vuole	volere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ammonizioni	ammonizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
muto	muto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ammonizioni	ammonizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ammonizioni	ammonizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ammonizioni	ammonizione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sordo	sordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
muto	muto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sordomuto	sordomuto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sa	sapere	AUX	VM	aux
leggere	leggere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrivere	scrivere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	advmod
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
uno	uno	PRON	PI	det
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
interpreti	interprete	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scelti	scelto	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
abituate	abituare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
trattare	trattare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

----------------	----------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
120	120	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Testimoni	Testimoni	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
minori	minore	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
palesemente	palesemente	ADV	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
affette	affetta	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
ubriachezza	ubriachezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intossicazione	intossicazione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
psicotrope	psicotrope	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentive	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
121	121	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Memorie	Memorie	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
memorie	memorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
scritte	scrivere	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ritualmente	ritualmente	ADV	B	advmod
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
122	122	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procura	procura	PROPN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
determinati	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
specificamente	specificamere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conferita	conferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unita	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sufficiente	sufficiente	ADJ	A	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munita	munire	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
firma	firma	NOUN	S	conj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
qualificata	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
111-bis	111-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obj
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
ratifica	ratifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
123	123	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internate	internare	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	Esse	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritte	iscritto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fossero	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevute	ricevuto	VERB	V	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
custodito	custodire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
cura	curare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
richeste	richesta	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
come	come	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fossero	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevute	ricevuto	VERB	V	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicate	comunicare	ADJ	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
nominato	nominato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunce	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
124	124	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligo	obbligo	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
magistrati	magistrato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cancellieri	cancelliero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
collaboratori	collaboratore	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
importa	importare	VERB	V	advcl
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
dirigenti	dirigente	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
vigilano	vigilare	VERB	V	ROOT
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinare	disciplinare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ATTI	ATTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
PROVVEDIMENTI	PROVVEDIMENTI	PROPN	SP	conj
DEL	DEL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
GIUDICE	GIUDICE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
125	125	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Forme	Forme	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
assume	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
popolo	popolo	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivate	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
motivati	motivare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
delibera	deliberare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assisterlo	assistere lo	VERB	V_PC	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
segreta	segreto	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiali	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	PC	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espresso	esprettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
voto	voto	NOUN	S	obj
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compilato	compilare	VERB	V	conj
sommario	sommario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dissenziente	dissenziente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questione	questione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dissenso	dissenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
succintamente	succintamente	ADV	B	advmod
esposti	esposta	VERB	A	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	obl:agent
anziano	anziano	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
togati	togato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservato	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	nmod
sigillato	sigillare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
111-ter	111-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
126	126	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assistenza	Assistenza	PROPN	SP	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assistito	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
supportato	supportare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	obl
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
127	127	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
dare	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
compaiono	compaiire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ccomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
posto	posto	NOUN	S	compound
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
contrario	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ccomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ccomp
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivo	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
128	128	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
emessi	emesso	ADJ	A	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
impugnabili	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	DI	det
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
129	129	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediata	immediato	NOUN	A	amod
declaratoria	declaratoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
estinto	estinto	ADJ	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	conj
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
pronuncia	pronunciare	NOUN	S	compound
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obl
prescritta	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
129-bis	129-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	appos
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Centro	Centro	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nominati	nominare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
reputi	repere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
utile	utile	ADJ	A	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comporti	comportare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessati	interessato	ADJ	V	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
perseguibili	perseguibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADV	B	obl
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
centottanta	centottanta	NOUN	S	obl
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rinviabili	rinviabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
415-bis	415-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344-bis	344-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mediatore	mediatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
130	130	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
inficiati	inficiare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
errori	errore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
eliminazione	eliminazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnato	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rettificare	rettificare	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnato	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rettificazione	rettificazione	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
619	619	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
131	131	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitivi	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prescrivendo	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
tutto	tutto	DET	DI	det
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
132	132	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
condurre	condurre	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obl
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
conseguenziali	conseguenzialo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
perduri	perduro	VERB	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuta	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133	133	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	appos
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
citati	citare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convocati	convocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
omettono	omettire	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ora	ora	ADV	B	advmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinarne	ordinare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obj
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
condannarli	condannare li	VERB	V_PC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	NUM	N	det
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	ADJ	A	amod
integra	integra	ADJ	A	amod
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
tacita	tacito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	B	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	I	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
133-bis	133-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
celebrazione	celebrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-ter	133-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
133-ter	133-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	det
una	uno	PRON	PI	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
partecipino	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
celebrazione	celebrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
celebrazione	celebrazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	dep
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	discourse
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	parataxis
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attivato	attivare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	obj
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aula	aula	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
equiparato	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aula	aula	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attuato	attuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
salvaguardare	salvaguardare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
contestuale	contestuale	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reciproca	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
visibilità	visibilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
udire	udire	VERB	V	acl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detto	dire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	PRON	PI	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguata	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicità	pubblicità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
collegano	collegare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dotazioni	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
logistiche	logistico	ADJ	A	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
collegamento	collegamento	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisivo	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
detenute	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
internate	internare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ristrette	ristretto	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
collegano	collegare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sentite	sentito	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
collegarsi	collegare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
collegano	collegare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituti	sostituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistito	assistito	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
assicurato	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituti	sostituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consultarsi	consultare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
riservatamente	riservatamente	ADV	B	advmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistito	assistito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	conj
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
prioritaria	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sezioni	sezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
designato	designare	VERB	V	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
investigazione	investigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
riferiti	riferire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
redige	redigere	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	nmod
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DOCUMENTAZIONE	DOCUMENTAZIONE	NOUN	S	nmod
DEGLI	DEGLI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ATTI	ATTI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
134	134	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stenotipia	stenotipia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
idoneo	idoneo	VERB	A	parataxis
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
manuale	manuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
135	135	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stenotipia	stenotipia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
idoneo	idoneo	NOUN	A	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possiede	possedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
esterno	esterno	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
136	136	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cominciato	cominciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiuso	chiuso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
intervenute	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
conosciute	conosciere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
constatato	constatare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	conj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
spontaneamente	spontaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riprodotta	riprodurre	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dettata	dettare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questi	PRON	PD	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consultare	consultare	VERB	V	xcomp
note	noto	ADJ	A	amod
scritte	scritta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
137	137	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
483	483	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
foglio	foglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
intervenute	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaurite	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviate	rinviare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervenuti	intervenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vuole	volere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
138	138	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trascrizione	Trascrizione	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stenotipia	stenotipia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
483	483	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
2	2	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
nastri	nastro	NOUN	S	nsubj
impressi	impressi	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stenotipia	stenotipia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trascritti	trascritto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caratteri	carattere	NOUN	S	obl
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
uniti	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impresso	imprettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
nastri	nastro	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
impedita	impedito	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
139	139	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
estraneo	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
intelligibile	intelligibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fonografiche	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
audiovisive	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
unite	unire	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
140	140	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettui	effettui	VERB	V	ccomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
verbalizzare	verbalizzare	VERB	V	acl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	advcl
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	conj
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	advmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contingente	contingente	ADJ	A	amod
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	nummod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riprodotta	riprodurre	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
originaria	originario	NOUN	S	amod
genuina	genuino	ADJ	A	amod
espressione	espressione	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
servire	servire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
credibilità	credibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
141	141	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
orali	orale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impone	imporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
orali	orale	ADJ	A	amod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cura	curare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
unita	unito	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
procura	procura	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
certificazione	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rese	reso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
141-bis	141-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolgare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	conj
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inutilizzabilità	inutilizzabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
audiovisiva	audiovisiva	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
audiovisiva	audiovisiva	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	conj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
riassuntiva	riassuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
142	142	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salve	salve	ADJ	A	amod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
intervenute	intervenere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TRADUZIONE	TRADUZIONE	PROPN	S	nmod
DEGLI	DEGLI	PROPN	SP	case
ATTI	ATTI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
gratuitamente	gratuito	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
poter	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comprendere	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accusa	accusa	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
formulata	formulato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
seguire	seguire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipa	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
memoria	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
tale	tale	DET	DD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	S	acl
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
accuse	accusa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impugnabile	impugnabile	ADJ	A	amod
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
cittadino	cittadino	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dialetto	dialetto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
interpretare	interpretare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolata	regolare	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
143-bis	143-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	advmod
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
tradurre	tradurre	VERB	V	ccomp
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
scritto	scritto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dialetto	dialetto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
facilmente	facilmente	ADV	B	advmod
intellegibile	intellegibile	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vuole	volere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	ROOT
procedente	procedente	ADJ	B	advmod
nomina	nomina	NOUN	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
audizione	audizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
intenda	intenda	NOUN	S	nsubj
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assicurata	assicurato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	sempreché	DET	T	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
correttamente	correttamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comprendere	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
compiutamente	compiutamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuita	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	A	ROOT
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
riassunto	riassunto	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
144	144	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incapacità	Incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minorenne	minorenne	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdetto	interdetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inabilitato	inabilitato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
affetto	affetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PQ	ROOT
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
interdetto	interdevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
interdetto	interdevere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	conj
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	xcomp
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sorda	sordo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muta	muto	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sordomuta	sordomuto	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
145	145	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiuto	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convenienza	convenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiararlo	dichiarare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaurite	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	S	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
espletato	espletare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	conj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
146	146	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	B	advmod
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
versi	versare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
145	145	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ammonisce	ammonire	VERB	V	ROOT
poi	poi	ADV	B	advmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	acl
bene	bene	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fedelmente	fedelmente	ADV	B	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obj
affidatogli	affidatoglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senz'	senza	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
faranno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quindi	quindi	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
traduttore	traduttore	NOUN	S	conj
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
147	147	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
traduzioni	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lunga	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	ROOT
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
giusta	giusto	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
discolparsi	discolpare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
centomila	centomila	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	NUM	N	nummod
milione	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
NOTIFICAZIONI	NOTIFICAZIONI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
148	148	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Organi	Organi	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	CS	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
regolamentare	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmesso	trasmesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporale	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rappresentate	rappresentare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dati	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
verbalmente	verbalmente	ADV	B	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	A	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sostituiscono	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Sostituisce	Sostituisce	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
annota	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
eseguita	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inidoneità	inidoneità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impedimenti	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
delegata	delegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
tenuta	tenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Polizia	Polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penitenziaria	penitenziaria	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
regola	regola	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
mani	mano	NOUN	S	obl
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
averla	avere la	VERB	VA_PC	aux
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sigillare	sigillare	VERB	V	xcomp
trascrivendovi	trascrivere vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
cronologico	cronologico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	conj
atto	atto	NOUN	S	compound
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
149	149	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
telefono	telefono	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
telegrafo	telegrafo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvisate	avvisare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convocate	convocare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
telefono	telefono	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatta	redaggere	VERB	V	ROOT
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserita	inserire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
chiamato	chiamato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
svolte	svolgere	NOUN	S	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
telefonata	telefonata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
chiamando	chiamare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conviva	convire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
telefonica	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	xcomp
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
telegramma	telegramma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	PD	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
telegramma	telegramma	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
152	152	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituite	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	B	advmod
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificare	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	V	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
invio	invio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
153	153	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
annota	annotare	VERB	V	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
prenda	prendere	VERB	V	advcl
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscrivendolo	sottoscrivendolo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
annota	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
eseguita	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
153-bis	153-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Domicilio	domicilio	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	NOUN	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	NOUN	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	B	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elegge	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formulazione	formulazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
raccolta	raccolgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
111-bis	111-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
telegramma	telegramma	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	parataxis
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficienti	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidonee	inidonea	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
154	154	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
civilmente	civilmente	ADJ	S	conj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
querela	querela	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
153-bis	153-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficienti	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidonee	inidonea	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ignoti	ignoto	ADJ	A	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
segreteria	segreterio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
invitata	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
inidonea	inidoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
153-bis	153-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344-bis	344-bis	NUM	N	nummod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
digitale	digitale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidonea	inidoneo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
155	155	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
annunzi	annunzi	ADV	B	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offese	offeso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
identificarne	identificare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
alcuni	alcuno	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offese	offendere	VERB	V	amod
risulti	risulto	ADJ	A	advcl
difficile	difficile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designati	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	V	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
appaiono	apparire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
portare	portare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
interessati	interessato	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
comunale	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	mark
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
deposita	depositare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
giustificativi	giustificativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segreteria	segreterio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
156	156	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
rifiutata	rifiutato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
legittimamente	legittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
assente	assente	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
celere	celere	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penitenziari	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precedono	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internato	internato	ADJ	A	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157	157	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
01	01	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	csubj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conviva	convire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
addetta	addettare	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	csubj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
addetta	addettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
addetta	addettare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	dep
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
recapito	recapire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	amod
sottoscrive	sottoscrivo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
quattordici	quattordici	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
manifesta	manifesta	ADJ	A	amod
incapacità	incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
appare	apparire	VERB	V	conj
probabile	probabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	obl
chiuso	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8)	8)	PUNCT	A	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiutano	rifiutare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tornando	tornare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositato	depositare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
affisso	affisrere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
porta	porta	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
porta	porta	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invia	inviare	VERB	V	appos
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvedendo	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anagrafica	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
avverte	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
01	01	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avverte	avverte	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	obj
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
informarlo	informare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-quater	8-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
omessa	omessa	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritardata	ritardare	VERB	V	conj
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistito	assistito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mandato	mandato	NOUN	S	obl
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157-bis	157-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notifiche	Notifiche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	prima	ADJ	NO	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	prima	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	PRON	PI	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
conviva	convire	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
01	01	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
sino	sino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
realizzano	realizzare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precede	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
157-ter	157-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Notifiche	Notifiche	ADV	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344-bis	344-bis	NUM	N	nummod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
improcrastinabile	improcrastinabile	ADJ	A	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
581	581	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
159	159	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parole	parola	NOUN	S	conj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascita	nascita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
anagrafica	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
carceraria	carcerario	ADJ	A	amod
centrale	centrale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
diano	diare	AUX	V	advcl
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obj
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
emette	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
designato	designare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguite	eseguito	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
valide	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
irreperibile	irreperibile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentato	rappresentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
160	160	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Efficacia	Efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
manchi	manco	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
introduttivi	introduttivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
cessano	cessare	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduto	precedere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
161	161	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
01	01	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	ROOT
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violate	violate	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
avverte	avvertire	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverse	diverso	ADJ	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
avvertita	avvertito	VERB	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
informarlo	informare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internati	internare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
invitano	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvertiti	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cc
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divenga	divenga	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inidoneo	inidoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
verranno	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compierla	compiere la	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvertimenti	avvertimente	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
detenuto	detenuto	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
scarcerato	scarcerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	obl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimesso	dimettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimissione	dimissione	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritte	iscritte	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimissione	dimissione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficienti	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidonee	inidonea	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
159	159	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
162	162	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eletto	eleggere	ADJ	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	dep
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
111-bis	111-bis	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
raccolta	raccolgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
telegramma	telegramma	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Analogamente	analogamente	PROPN	SP	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frattempo	frattempo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Finchè	Finchè	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
valide	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliatario	domiciliatario	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presta	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenso	assenso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domiciliazione	domiciliazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
163	163	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
162	162	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
164	164	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Efficacia	Efficacia	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valida	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
165	165	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
latitante	latitante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
evaso	evaso	NOUN	V	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
latitante	latitante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
evaso	evaso	NOUN	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
450	450	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
456	456	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
552	552	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
601	601	NUM	N	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
perfezionata	perfezionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
evaso	evadere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
designa	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
latitante	latitante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
evaso	evaso	NOUN	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rappresentato	rappresentare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
166	166	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	ADJ	A	amod
interdetto	interdetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infermo	infermo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
interdetto	interdetto	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tutore	tutore	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
167	167	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
eseguono	eseguere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
149	149	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
168	168	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematiche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
generata	generare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl:agent
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
scrive	scrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
calce	calce	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
notificata	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
mansioni	mansione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	det:poss
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apponendo	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
contraddizione	contraddizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
scritta	scrittare	ADJ	V	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valgono	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
notificata	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
169	169	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
invia	invia	NOUN	S	obj
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recapito	recapito	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
qualificato	qualificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elezione	elezione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
inidonea	inidoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ccomp
essersi	essere si	AUX	VA_PC	aux
trasferita	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
straniero	straniero	NOUN	S	compound
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
conosca	conore	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
risiede	risiedere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
sufficienti	sufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
pronunciare	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
risulti	risulto	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
170	170	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
157-ter	157-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	le	DET	A	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
postali	postale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
valida	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diretto	dirigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
piego	piego	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
restituisca	restituire	ADJ	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
piego	piego	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
171	171	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
incompleto	incompleto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
mittente	mittente	NOUN	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettati	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
manca	mancare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
violate	violare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8-ter	8-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
161	161	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
01	01	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omessa	omettere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affissione	affissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	dep
stata	essere	AUX	V	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
prescritte	prescritta	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
notificato	notificato	ADJ	A	amod
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
157	157	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TERMINI	TERMINI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
172	172	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calendario	calendario	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
scade	scadere	VERB	S	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
festivo	festivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
festivo	festivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computa	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computa	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
ora	ora	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
intere	intere	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
libere	libero	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
scaduto	scadere	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiuso	chiudere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fare	fare	VERB	V	acl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	B	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettato	rispettare	VERB	V	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
orario	orario	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
173	173	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Abbreviazione	abbreviazione	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
disponga	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consentirne	consentire ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbreviazione	abbreviazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
174	174	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prolungamento	Prolungamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	V	ROOT
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prolungato	prolungare	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
viaggio	viaggio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
prolungamento	prolungamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cinquecento	cinquecento	NUM	N	nummod
chilometri	chilometro	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
chilometri	chilometro	NOUN	S	nsubj
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prolungamento	prolungamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuti	detenuto	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
internati	internare	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prolungamento	prolungamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
prolungamento	prolungamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	case
emette	emette	VERB	S	nmod
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
invito	invito	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
175	175	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
provano	provare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
averlo	avere lo	AUX	VA_PC	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
cessato	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituente	costituente	ADJ	A	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituito	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	VA	aux
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
215	215	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2.1	2.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudicato	giudicare	NOUN	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituito	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	VA	aux
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
420-bis	420-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
potuto	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	conj
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicata	indicare	ADJ	A	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2.1	2.1	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2005	2005	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	NOUN	SP	nmod
2005	2005	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciati	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sarebbe	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concede	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuto	detenere	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	conj
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	advcl
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorso	intercorso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
contumaciale	contumaciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concede	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2.1	2.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344-bis	344-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorso	intercorso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
novantesimo	novantesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
544	544	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	mark
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitoria	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concede	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
175-bis	175-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domini	domini	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
automatizzati	automatizzato	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestato	attestare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
portale	portale	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurarne	assicurare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscibilità	conoscibilità	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corretto	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestato	attestare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orario	orario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
registrati	registrare	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogico	analogico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
111-ter	111-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	dep
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attestato	attestare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dirigente	dirigente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscibilità	conoscibilità	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orario	orario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificare	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scade	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	cc
provino	provino	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essersi	essere si	AUX	VA_PC	aux
trovati	trovare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impossibilità	impossibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	conj
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
176	176	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
aveva	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

NULLITÀ	NULLITÀ	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
177	177	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tassativà	Tassativà	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
causa	causa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
178	178	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
costituire	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
collegi	collegio	NOUN	S	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
179	179	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	Nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
assolute	assolere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
insanabili	insanabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rilevate	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
insanabili	insanabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
rilevate	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
assolute	assolere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
180	180	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
179	179	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevate	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilevate	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
dedotte	dedotte	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
181	181	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
179	179	NUM	N	conj
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	obl
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
manchi	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposte	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarate	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verificatesi	verificare si	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
182	182	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
181	181	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepite	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl:agent
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darvi	dare vi	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
violata	violato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepita	eccepire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
181	181	NUM	N	conj
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rilevare	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccepire	eccepire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
183	183	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanatorie	sanatorie	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sanate	sanare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
eccepirle	eccepire lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalsa	avvalso	VERB	A	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
omesso	omesso	ADJ	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
preordinato	preordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
184	184	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanatoria	sanatoria	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazioni	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazioni	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
sanata	sanare	VERB	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comparsa	comparsa	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunciato	rinunciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiari	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ccomp

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
intento	intento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
rilevare	rilevare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsto	prevedere	NOUN	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
429	429	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
185	185	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
invalidi	invalidi	ADJ	A	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
consecutivi	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dipendono	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ponendo	porre	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
regressione	regressione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
186	186	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
tributarie	tributario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
assoggetta	assoggettare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
tassa	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
impedisce	impedire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Libro	libro	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PROVE	PROVE	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
187	187	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dipende	dipendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
188	188	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Libertà	Libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
interessata	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	conj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
influire	influire	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autodeterminazione	autodeterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
alterare	alterare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricordare	ricordare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
189	189	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
disciplinate	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumerla	assumere la	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obj
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
190	190	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
escludendo	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obj
vietate	vietare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
manifestamente	manifestamente	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superflue	superfluo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irrilevanti	irrilevanto	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocati	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentite	sentire	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
190-bis	190-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Requisiti	Requisiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell	nell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
210	210	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
queste	questo	PRON	PD	conj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
reso	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	DD	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
ritengono	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-	600-	NUM	N	nummod
quater	quater	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	NOUN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-ter	609-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
pornografico	pornografico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NUM	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obj
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
diciotto	diciotto	NUM	N	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
testimoniale	testimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
richiesto	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
vulnerabilità	vulnerabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	det
191	191	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
illegittimamente	illegittimamente	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	ADJ	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inutilizzabilità	inutilizzabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rilevabile	rilevabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
ottenute	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tortura	tortura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
accusate	accusare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provarne	provare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
192	192	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Valutazione	Valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
adottati	adottato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
desunta	desungere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precisi	preciso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concordanti	concordante	ADJ	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
coimputato	coimputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
confermano	confermare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attendibilità	attendibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
collegato	collegare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
193	193	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccettuati	eccettuare	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cittadinanza	cittadinanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
MEZZI	MEZZI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
PROVA	PROVA	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	i	ADJ	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
TESTIMONIANZA	TESTIMONIANZA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
194	194	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminato	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
moralità	moralità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
qualificarne	qualificare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
estendersi	estendere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intercorrono	intercorrono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
valutarne	valutare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
credibilità	credibilità	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
definire	definire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminato	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	ROOT
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	obl
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
esprimere	esprimere	VERB	V	conj
apprezzamenti	apprezzamento	NOUN	A	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	advcl
scinderli	scindere li	VERB	V_PC	csubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposizione	deposizione	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
195	195	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Testimonianza	Testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
indiretta	indirettare	ADJ	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inutilizzabili	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	nmod
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irreperibilità	irreperibilità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
351	351	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
357	357	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
appresi	apprendere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
201	201	NUM	N	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deposto	deporre	VERB	V	advcl
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
divulgati	divulgato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
appreso	apprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
196	196	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
verificarne	verificare ne	VERB	V_PC	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mentale	mentale	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	acl
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
testimoniale	testimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
precludono	precludere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
197	197	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incompatibilità	Incompatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
coimputati	coimputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
imputate	imputare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imputate	imputare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
collegato	collegare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	PE	det:poss
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
investigazione	investigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formato	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-ter	391-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
197-bis	197-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Persone	Persone	NOUN	S	nmod
imputate	imputato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giudicare	giudicare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
collegato	collegato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
collegato	collegare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
collegato	collegare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistito	assistire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designato	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
155	155	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
244	244	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
negato	negare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reso	rendere	VERB	V	conj
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concernono	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	ADJ	A	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
192	192	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
155	155	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
244	244	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
198	198	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obblighi	Obblighi	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
attenersi	attenere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
date	dare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolte	rivolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
potrebbe	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emergere	emergere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
199	199	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Facoltà	Facoltà	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Devono	Devono	AUX	VM	aux
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
essi	esso	PRON	PE	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimo	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
offesi	offendere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvisa	avvisare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
chiedendo	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	advcl
avvalersene	avvalersene	VERB	V_PC_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legato	legare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
verificatisi	verificare si	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
appresi	apprendere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	obl
coniugale	coniugale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	cop
coniuge	coniuga	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
conviva	conviva	ADJ	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
convissuto	convissere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	ROOT
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	acl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unione	unione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sesso	sesso	NOUN	S	nmod
contratti	contratre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
200	200	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Segreto	Segreto	PROPN	SP	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
su	su	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confessioni	confessione	NOUN	S	nmod
religiose	religioso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
statuti	statuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contrastino	contrastare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	obl
giuridico	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvocati	avvocato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
investigatoriprivati	investigatoriprivato	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
notai	notae	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medici	medico	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
chirurghi	chirurgo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
farmacisti	farmacista	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ostetriche	ostetrica	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
sanitaria	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dubitare	dubitare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
resa	resa	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esimersi	esimere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
deponga	depongare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornalisti	giornalista	NOUN	S	obl
professionisti	professionista	ADJ	A	amod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
professionale	professionale	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	NOUN	PD	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
fiduciario	fiduciario	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
veridicità	veridicità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornalista	giornalista	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
201	201	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Segreto	Segreto	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferirne	riferire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
202	202	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Segreto	Segreto	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
oppone	opponere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	Presidente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospendendo	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obj
volta	volgere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
coperto	coprire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
doversi	dovere si	AUX	VM_PC	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
confermata	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inibisce	inibire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
coperte	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	ROOT
è	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precluso	precludere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
autonomi	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sollevato	sollevare	VERB	V	advcl
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolto	risogliere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opporlo	oppore lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolto	risogliere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
opposto	opposto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
opponibile	opponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
203	203	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Informatori	informatori	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
obbligare	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
dipendente	dipendente	VERB	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
>	>	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
militare	militare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
democratica	democratico	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rivelare	rivelare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
nomi	nome	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
informatori	informatore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	advcl
>	>	VERB	S	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	dep
fornite	fornito	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inutilizzabilità	inutilizzabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fasi	fase	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
informatori	informatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrogati	interrogare	VERB	V	advcl
ne	in	PRON	PC	expl
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
sommarie	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
204	204	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
202	202	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
203	203	NUM	N	conj
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
opposto	opporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definita	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
202	202	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
203	203	NUM	N	conj
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotto	NOUN	S	obj
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustificazione	giustificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essendo	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esperita	esperita	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
esclusa	escludere	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustificazione	giustificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
opposto	opposto	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cosa	cosa	DET	DI	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
opponibile	opponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	SP	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
declassificare	declassificare	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
classifica	classifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
205	205	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grandi	grande	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Capo	capo	PROPN	SP	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presidenti	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Camere	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preposti	preporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
206	206	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatici	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminato	esaminare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diplomatico	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
missione	missione	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatica	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	obl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
consolare	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
deposizioni	deposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatici	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Santa	Santa	PROPN	SP	nmod
Sede	Sede	PROPN	SP	flat:name
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
diplomatici	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
estero	estero	ADJ	A	compound
accreditati	accreditare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Santa	Santa	PROPN	SP	conj
Sede	Sede	PROPN	SP	flat:name
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
consuetudini	consuetudine	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
206-bis	206-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cardinali	cardinale	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
testimonianza	testimonianza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
cardinale	cardinale	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Santa	Santa	PROPN	SP	obl
Sede	Sede	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminato	esaminare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
continuità	continuità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
preposto	preposto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rivestono	Rivestono	VERB	A	amod
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilievo	rilievo	NOUN	S	nmod
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Santa	Santa	PROPN	SP	nmod
Sede	Sede	PROPN	SP	flat:name
il	il	DET	RD	det
cardinale	cardinale	NOUN	S	nmod
decano	decano	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sacro	sacro	ADJ	SP	amod
Collegio	Collegio	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cardinali	cardinale	NOUN	S	appos
prefetti	prefetto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dicasteri	dicastero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Curia	Curia	PROPN	SP	nmod
romana	romano	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
congregazione	congregazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cardinale	cardinale	ADJ	A	amod
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Supremo	Supremo	ADJ	SP	nmod
tribunale	tribunale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Segnatura	Segnatura	NOUN	S	nmod
apostolica	apostolico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cardinale	cardinale	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presiede	presiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Penitenzieria	Penitenzieria	PROPN	SP	obj
apostolica	apostolico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
207	207	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Testimoni	Testimoni	PROPN	S	nmod
sospettati	sospettato	ADJ	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reticenza	reticenza	NOUN	V	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Testimoni	Testimoni	PROPN	SP	xcomp
renitenti	renitente	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
rende	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
contraddittorie	contraddittorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incomplete	incomplere	ADJ	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrastanti	contrastante	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
acquisite	acquisire	ADJ	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
glielo	gli lo	PRON	PC_PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
rilevare	rilevare	VERB	V	ccomp
rinnovandogli	rinnovandoglio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
497	497	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
2	2	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
deporre	deporre	VERB	V	xcomp
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
persiste	persistere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obj
processuale	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ravvisa	ravvisare	VERB	V	advcl
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
372	372	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
trasmettendogli	trasmettendogli	DET	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ESAME	ESAME	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLE	DELLE	PROPN	E_RD	dep
PARTI	PARTI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
208	208	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminata	esaminare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
civilmente	civilmere	ADJ	A	amod
obbligata	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fanno	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
209	209	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Regole	Regole	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
499	499	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
esaminata	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
210	210	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esame	Esame	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
imputata	imputare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
imputate	imputare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	conj
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Esse	Esse	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obj
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistite	assistire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designato	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
avverte	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
194	194	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
195	195	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
498	498	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
499	499	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
500	500	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
imputate	imputare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	conj
collegato	collegare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
371	371	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
reso	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
richiamate	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
197-bis	197-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
497	497	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
211	211	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposti	Presupposti	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
esaminate	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interrogate	interrogare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
disaccordo	disaccordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
importanti	importante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
212	212	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiamate	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
loro	loro	PRON	PE	dep
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	lo	PRON	PC	obj
confermano	confermare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	PC	det
modificano	modificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invitandoli	invitandole	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reciproche	reciproco	ADJ	A	amod
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domande	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
rivolte	rivolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
messe	mettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RICOGNIZIONI	RICOGNIZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
213	213	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricognizione	ricognizione	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirla	eseguire la	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
descrivere	descrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
particolari	particolare	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricorda	ricordare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
poi	poi	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	obl
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
visto	vedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
riprodotta	riprodottare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
fotografia	fotografia	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
riconoscere	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
descritta	descriggere	ADJ	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	conj
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
influire	influire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
attendibilità	attendibilità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
rese	reso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
causa	causa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
214	214	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Svolgimento	Svolgimento	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allontanato	allontanato	NOUN	S	advcl
colui	colui	PRON	PD	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procura	procurare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
somiglianti	somigliante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
abbigliamento	abbigliamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Invita	Invita	VERB	V	ROOT
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
scegliere	scegliere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
altre	altro	PRON	PI	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curando	curare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenti	presentare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sin	sino	ADV	B	mark
dove	dove	ADV	B	fixed
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vista	vedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
introdotta	introdottare	VERB	V	ROOT
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
le	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	parataxis
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosca	riconore	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
affermativo	affermativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	xcomp
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	PRON	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
certa	certo	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
subire	subire	VERB	V	ccomp
intimidazione	intimidazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
influenza	influenza	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	S	nsubj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
vedere	vedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	obl
fotografiche	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinematografiche	cinematografico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
215	215	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	amod
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Procurati	Procurati	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	appos
simili	simile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
riconoscere	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
chiamata	chiamare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosca	riconore	VERB	V	advcl
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
affermativo	affermativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
quale	quale	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
precisare	precisare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	PRON	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
certa	certo	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
216	216	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
ricognizioni	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
suoni	suono	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	conj
altro	altro	PRON	PI	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
percezione	percezione	NOUN	S	nmod
sensoriale	sensoriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	parataxis
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
217	217	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pluralità	pluralità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricognizioni	ricognizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamate	chiamare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
separati	separato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impedendo	impedere	VERB	V	advcl
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
eseguirla	eseguire la	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocati	collocare	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ESPERIMENTI	ESPERIMENTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
GIUDIZIALI	GIUDIZIALI	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
218	218	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposti	Presupposti	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	ccomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
consiste	consistere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
afferma	affermare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
219	219	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Modalità	Modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
succinta	succinto	ADJ	A	amod
enunciazione	enunciazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procederà	procedare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
designare	designare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esperto	esperto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	obl
fotografiche	fotografico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cinematografiche	cinematografico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
aula	aula	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
471	471	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperimento	esperimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
affinchè	affinché	ADJ	CS	mark
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolga	svolga	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
offendere	offendere	VERB	V	acl
sentimenti	sentimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coscienza	coscienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PERIZIA	PERIZIA	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
220	220	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	ccomp
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scientifiche	scientifico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
artistiche	artistico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
perizie	perizie	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abitualità	abitualità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tendenza	tendenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
delinquere	delinquere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
psichiche	psichico	ADJ	A	amod
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl
patologiche	patologico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
221	221	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nomina	nominare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
nomina	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	ADJ	S	obj
scegliendolo	scegliendolo	NOUN	S	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
iscritti	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
albi	albo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fornite	fornito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	amod
cura	cura	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidato	affidare	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
affida	affido	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notevole	notevole	ADJ	A	amod
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenze	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
discipline	discipline	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ricorra	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
222	222	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Incapacità	Incapacità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
incompatibilità	incompatibilità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
minorenne	minorenne	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdetto	interdetto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inabilitato	inabilitato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
affetto	affetto	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PQ	ROOT
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
interdetto	interdevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
interdetto	interdevere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoniare	testimoniare	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
chiamato	chiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	xcomp
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	conj
connesso	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
223	223	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
esiste	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiararlo	dichiarare lo	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricusato	ricusare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
previsto	prevedere	NOUN	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaurite	esaurire	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	S	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
conosciuti	conoscere	VERB	V	conj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
decide	decidere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
224	224	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
enunciazione	enunciazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opportuni	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
224-bis	224-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	Provvedimenti	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
perizie	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
incidere	incidere	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposo	colposo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumato	consumare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	csubj
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
incidere	incidere	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quali	quale	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
capelli	capello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
peli	pele	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
mucosa	mucosa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cavo	cavo	NOUN	S	amod
orale	orale	ADJ	S	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
viventi	vivente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profilo	profilo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
DNA	DNA	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
medici	medico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quanto	quanto	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
valga	valere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarla	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
potrà	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	obj
coattivo	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	amod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contrastano	contrastare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
espressi	espresso	NOUN	S	obl
divieti	divieto	ADJ	A	amod
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nascituro	nascituro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scienza	scienza	NOUN	S	obl
medica	medico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provocare	provocare	VERB	V	conj
sofferenze	sofferenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lieve	lieve	VERB	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pudore	pudore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
parità	parità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risultato	risultato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescelte	prescelte	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nsubj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
invasive	invasivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
invitata	invitare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
addurre	addurre	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accompagnata	accompagnare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
comparendo	comparere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
coercizione	coercizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
132	132	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assistita	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nominato	nominato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
225	225	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Nomina	nominare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Disposta	Disposta	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
statale	statale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbienti	abbiente	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	xcomp
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
226	226	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
223	223	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
avverte	avvertire	VERB	V	ccomp
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
invita	invitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
consapevole	consapevole	ADJ	A	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	obl
morale	morale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assumo	assumo	NOUN	S	fixed
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mi	mi	PRON	PC	iobj
impegno	impegno	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
adempiere	adempiere	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mio	mio	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
conoscere	conoscere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
formula	formulare	VERB	V	ROOT
quindi	quindi	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
227	227	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritale	peritale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Concluse	concluse	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	xcomp
raccolto	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
poter	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dovrà	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
illustrare	illustrare	VERB	V	csubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
note	noto	ADJ	S	obl
scritte	scrivere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	appos
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
228	228	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quesiti	quesito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	xcomp
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
servirsi	servire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ausiliari	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
implicanti	implicante	NOUN	V	obj
apprezzamenti	apprezzamento	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisiti	acquisito	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
peritale	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sorgono	sorgere	VERB	V	conj
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimessa	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	obl
importi	importare	VERB	V	advcl
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
229	229	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Comunicazioni	comunicazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
inizierà	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
dare	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
230	230	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
richieste	richieste	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proponendo	proponere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obl
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formulando	formulare	VERB	V	conj
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riserve	riserva	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
darsi	dare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esaurimento	esaurimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritardare	ritardare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
231	231	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissato	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	conj
negligentemente	negligentemente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nsubj
affidatogli	affidatoglio	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dipeso	dipendere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
cause	causa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabili	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
appartiene	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
citato	citare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	mark
discolparsi	discolpare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
trecentomila	trecentomila	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
sostituito	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accolta	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
astensione	astensione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricusazione	ricusazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostituito	sostituito	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
mettere	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
peritali	peritale	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
compiute	compiuto	VERB	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
232	232	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Liquidazione	Liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perito	perito	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidato	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
233	233	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Consulenza	consulenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	ROOT
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esporre	esporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
presentando	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	obj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuto	intervenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
impartisce	impartire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
originario	originario	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulente	consulente	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
nominati	nominare	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
230	230	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

DOCUMENTI	DOCUMENTI	PROPN	SP	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
234	234	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prova	Prova	NOUN	S	nmod
documentale	documentale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritti	scritto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rappresentano	rappresentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fatti	fare	VERB	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fotografia	fotografia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cinematografia	cinematografia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fonografia	fonografia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
far	fare	VERB	V	csubj
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
distrutto	distruggere	ADJ	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
smarrito	smarrire	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
recuperarlo	recuperare lo	VERB	V_PC	csubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esserne	essere ne	AUX	VA_PC	aux
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
voci	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
intorno	intorno	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
moralità	moralità	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
generale	generale	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periti	perito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
234-bis	234-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
235	235	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Documenti	Documenti	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	dep
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
detenga	detengare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
236	236	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Documenti	documenti	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
irrevocabili	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
straniere	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciute	riconosciuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutato	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamento	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
morali	morale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casellario	casellario	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
valutare	valutare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
credibilità	credibilità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
testimone	testimone	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
237	237	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sequestrato	sequestrare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
238	238	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Verbali	Verbali	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
definito	definire	VERB	A	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquistato	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
giudicata	giudicato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
stato	essere	VERB	V	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ripetibili	ripetibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
ripetizione	ripetizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
>	>	ADJ	A	advcl
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
imprevedibili	imprevedibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detti	detto	ADJ	V	nsubj:pass
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
503	503	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
190-bis	190-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo.(96	articolo.(96	PROPN	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
238-bis	238-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sentenze	Sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
irrevocabili	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
236	236	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
divenute	divenute	VERB	V	acl
irrevocabili	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
187	187	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
192	192	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
239	239	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
verificarne	verificare ne	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testimoni	testimone	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
240	240	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Documenti	Documenti	NOUN	SP	nmod
anonimi	anonimo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obl
illegali	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
anonime	anonimo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzati	utilizzato	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
costituiscano	costituiscare	VERB	V	advcl
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provengano	provengere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
secretazione	secretazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
protetto	protetto	NOUN	S	compound
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	obl
telefonico	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
illegalmente	illegalmente	ADV	B	advmod
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
illegale	illegale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietato	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporne	dispore ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
tenersi	tenere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
interessate	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sentite	Sentite	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
comparse	comparso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
legge	leggere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
sussistenti	sussistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vi	vi	PRON	B	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
subito	subito	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	E	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
apposito	apposito	VERB	V	xcomp
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dei	di	DET	E_RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
167	167	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
241	241	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Documenti	Documenti	NOUN	S	nmod
falsi	falso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
537	537	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
falsità	falsità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
trasmettendogli	trasmettendogli	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
242	242	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
143	143	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
comprensione	comprensione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisita	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
243	243	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rimanere	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
segreto	segreto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	xcomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
MEZZI	MEZZI	PROPN	S	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
RICERCA	RICERCA	NOUN	S	nmod
DELLA	DELLA	DET	E_RD	case
PROVA	PROVA	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	i	ADJ	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ISPEZIONI	ISPEZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
244	244	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
tracce	traccia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	advcl
tracce	traccia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
scomparsi	scomparso	VERB	V_PC	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
cancellati	cancellare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispersi	disperso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rimossi	rimuovere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
descrive	descrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
preesistente	preesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
curando	curare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	xcomp
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cause	causa	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
rilievi	rilievo	NOUN	S	obj
segnaletici	segnaletice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
descrittivi	descrittivo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fotografici	fotografico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottando	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dirette	dirette	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
impedirne	impedire ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
245	245	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibile	possibile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pudore	pudore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
medico	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
astenersi	astenere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
246	246	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enunciando	enunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
allontani	allontanare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
concluse	concludere	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
far	fare	VERB	V	conj
ricondurre	ricondurre	VERB	V	ccomp
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PERQUISIZIONI	PERQUISIZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
247	247	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Casi	Casi	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj
occulti	occultare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	ccomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguirsi	eseguire si	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evaso	evaso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tracce	traccia	NOUN	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
trovino	trovare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematico	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
protetto	protetto	NOUN	S	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottando	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dirette	dirette	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
impedirne	impedire ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
delegati	delegare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
248	248	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
ricerca	ricercare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consegnarla	consegnare la	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
utile	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
procedervi	procedervi	PROPN	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
completezza	completezza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
rintracciare	rintracciare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	conj
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
delegati	delegato	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
249	249	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Perquisizioni	perquisizione	PROPN	SP	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dignità	dignità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possibile	possibile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pudore	pudore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
250	250	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
locali	locale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farsi	fare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
rappresentare	rappresentare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistere	assistere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
mancano	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rivolto	rivolgere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
congiunto	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
coabitante	coabitante	NOUN	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
collaboratore	collaboratore	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portiere	portiere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
veci	veci	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
locale	locale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
perquisite	perquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sopraggiunte	sopraggiunto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
occultare	occultare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enunciando	enunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
allontani	allontanare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
concluse	concluso	VERB	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasgressore	trasgressore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattenuto	trattenere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricondotto	ricondurre	VERB	V	conj
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
251	251	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	ROOT
temporali	temporale	ADJ	S	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
chiusi	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
adiacenti	adiacente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziata	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
venti	vento	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
urgenti	urgente	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
252	252	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguente	conseguere	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rinvenute	rinvenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
259	259	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
260	260	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
252-bis	252-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Opposizione	Opposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
seguito	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	conj
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
accoglie	accogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ccomp
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SEQUESTRI	SEQUESTRI	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
253	253	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
presente	presente	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
254	254	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
postali	postale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telegrafici	telegrafico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pieghi	piego	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pacchi	pacco	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telegrammi	telegramma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
inoltrati	inoltrare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oggetti	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
aprirli	aprire li	VERB	V_PC	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterarli	alterare li	VERB	V_PC	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
carte	carta	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrati	sequestrato	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenza	corrispondenza	NOUN	S	obl
sequestrabile	sequestrabile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avente	avente	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
254-bis	254-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sequestro	Sequestro	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazioni	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
traffico	traffico	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
legate	legare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assicuri	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immodificabilità	immodificabilità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
proteggere	proteggere	VERB	V	conj
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
originali	originale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
255	255	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
corrente	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cassette	cassetta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quantunque	quantunque	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
256	256	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dovere	Dovere	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
segreti	segreto	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
201	201	NUM	N	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	conj
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incarico	incarico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
dichiarino	dichiarino	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	conj
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dubitare	dubitare	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondatezza	fondatezza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
potere	potere	NOUN	S	obl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
infondata	infondato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	Presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedendo	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
doversi	dovere si	AUX	VM_PC	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dia	dare	VERB	V	advcl
conferma	conferma	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
204	204	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
256-bis	256-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esibizione	esibizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	amod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
posto	posto	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	amod
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
esibiti	esibite	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	ccomp
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompleti	incompleto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	Presidente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	PRON	PC	expl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
confermare	confermare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inesistenza	inesistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
originato	originare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informativo	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
divulgazione	divulgazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
iniziative	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
estera	estero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
oppone	oppone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
256-ter	256-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eccepito	eccepire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	compound
eccepisce	eccepire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sigillato	sigillare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
pronuncia	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
257	257	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riesame	Riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
258	258	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Copie	copie	PROPN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restituendo	restituire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	xcomp
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
detenevano	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
legittimamente	legittimo	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
rilasciare	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificati	certificare	VERB	V	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nsubj
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificati	certificare	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
esistente	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
fu	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	nmod
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sequestrato	sequestrare	ADJ	V	acl
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
separato	separare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	advcl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
registro	registro	NOUN	S	conj
rimane	rimanere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nsubj
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
certificati	certificare	NOUN	V	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendo	fare	VERB	V	advcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
259	259	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	ADJ	V	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidate	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
opportuno	opportuno	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinandone	determinandorre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nominando	nominare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
custode	custode	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
trasgredisce	trasgredire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doveri	dovere	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
custode	custode	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
avvertito	avvertire	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedirne	impedire ne	VERB	V_PC	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	DET	DI	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custode	custode	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imposta	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvertimento	avvertimento	NOUN	S	obl
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	conj
imposta	imposto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
separato	separato	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
260	260	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
deperibili	deperibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	ADJ	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assicurano	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizioni	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	ccomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obj
imposto	imporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
fotografie	fotografia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
riproduzioni	riproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
alterarsi	alterare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficile	difficile	ADJ	A	amod
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
unisce	unisca	NOUN	S	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
custodire	custodire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
segreteria	segreterio	ADJ	A	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
259	259	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	conj
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assicuri	assicurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
immodificabilità	immodificabilità	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
alterarsi	alterare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
accertatore	accertatore	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettabile	assoggettabile	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
vietati	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficile	difficile	ADJ	A	amod
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	advcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
onerosa	oneroso	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolosa	pericoloso	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
igiene	igiene	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
divieti	divieto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatta	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usurpativa	usurpativo	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ignoti	ignoto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatte	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usurpative	usurpativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	DET	DI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduta	precedere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
364	364	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
261	261	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riapposizione	riapposizione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
verifica	verificare	NOUN	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrità	integrità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Compiuto	Compiuto	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
rimozione	rimozione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
sigillate	sigillare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nsubj
appongono	apponge	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
262	262	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	ADJ	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituite	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obj
restituite	restituito	ADJ	V	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	conj
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	PR	mark
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
preventivi	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
321	321	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Trascorsi	Trascorsi	VERB	V	advcl
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
reclamando	reclamare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
averne	avere ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
devolute	devolere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituite	restituire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
263	263	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	ADJ	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
dubbio	dubbio	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	advcl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mantenendo	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frattempo	frattempo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
respinge	respingere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessati	interessato	NOUN	V	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
INTERCETTAZIONI	INTERCETTAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
CONVERSAZIONI	CONVERSAZIONI	PROPN	SP	nmod
O	O	CCONJ	SP	cc
COMUNICAZIONI	COMUNICAZIONI	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
266	266	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissibilità	ammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
telefoniche	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazione	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obj
stupefacenti	stupefacente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
psicotrope	psicotrope	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
armi	arma	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
esplosive	esplosivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrabbando	contrabbando	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingiuria	ingiuria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
minaccia	minacciare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
usura	usura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abusiva	abusivare	VERB	V	conj
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
abuso	abuso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
privilegiate	privilegiato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
manipolazioni	manipolazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
molestia	molestia	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
disturbo	disturbo	NOUN	A	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
telefono	telefono	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	obl
pornografico	pornografico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
600-quater.1	600-quater.1	PUNCT	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
609-undecies	609-undecies	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
quinquies	quinquies	X	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
avvalendosi	avvalendoso	ADJ	B	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
queste	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
avvengano	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
614	614	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	xcomp
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
stia	stare	VERB	V	ccomp
svolgendo	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
criminosa	criminoso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	ADJ	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
giustificano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
614	614	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
266-bis	266-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Intercettazioni	Intercettazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	BN	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecnologie	tecnologia	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flusso	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatici	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
intercorrente	intercorrente	ADJ	A	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
267	267	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposti	presupposte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	ADJ	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
espone	espone	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	appos
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	advmod
determinati	determinare	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
microfono	microfono	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
203	203	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondato	fondare	VERB	V	ROOT
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	ccomp
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
va	andare	AUX	VA	aux
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	dep
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
convalidato	convalidare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proseguita	proseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	ADJ	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
indica	indico	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
impossibile	impossibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
attendere	attendere	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267)(270	267)(270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogata	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
permangano	permangano	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
indispensabilità	indispensabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giustificata	giustificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
emergere	emergere	VERB	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concreti	concreto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2020	2020	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
registro	registro	ADJ	B	advmod
riservato	riservato	ADJ	A	amod
gestito	gestito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotati	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
cronologico	cronologico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzano	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convalidano	convalidare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prorogano	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
268	268	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
intercettate	intercettato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sommariamente	sommariamente	ADJ	A	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
intercettate	intercettare	ADJ	V	acl
rilevante	rilevante	ADV	B	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rilevante	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trascritto	trascrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
sommariamente	sommariamente	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nessuna	nessuno	DET	DI	det
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportata	riportare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
annotazioni	annotazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
apposta	apposta	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
dicitura	dicitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
conversazione	conversazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
utile	utile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indaginì	indaginì	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigila	vigila	NUM	N	conj
affinchè	affinché	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportate	riportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
espressioni	espressione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lesive	lesivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reputazione	reputazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
afferenti	afferente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interlocutori	interlocutore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
identificare	identificare	VERB	V	xcomp
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
salvo	salvo	ADV	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini.(270	indagini.(270	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
installati	installare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procura	procura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
insufficienti	insufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inidonei	inidoneo	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	conj
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiute	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riguardanti	riguardante	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADP	E	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convalidato	convalidare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimanendovi	rimanire vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
riconosca	riconore	VERB	V	advcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
derivare	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ritardarlo	ritardare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ascoltare	ascoltare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	conj
cognizione	cognizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Scaduto	Scaduto	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appaiano	appaiano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrilevanti	irrilevante	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stralcio	stralcio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riguardano	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	obj
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stralcio	stralcio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvisati	avvisare	VERB	V	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
431	431	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obj
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
intellegibile	intellegibile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematiche	ADJ	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizie	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
stampe	stampa	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserite	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
contenute	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	B	conj
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contestazioni	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizioni	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fare	fare	VERB	V	conj
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasposizione	trasposizione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
informatiche	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
telematiche	telematiche	ADV	B	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
intercettati	intercettato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stampa	stampa	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
163	163	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
268-bis	268-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2020	2020	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268-ter	268-ter	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2020	2020	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268-quater	268-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ARTICOLO	ARTICOLO	NOUN	S	nmod
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
161	161	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
FEBBRAIO	FEBBRAIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2020	2020	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
archivio	archivio	ADJ	A	amod
gestito	gestito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
acquisite	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fascicolo	fascicolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
373	373	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
415-bis	415-bis	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
454	454	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ascolto	ascolto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
registrate	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
271	271	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservate	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	PC	iobj
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiederne	chiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riservatezza	riservatezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
convalidato	convalidare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	ROOT
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270	270	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatorio	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	ADJ	S	nmod
operate	operare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	obl
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
furono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Comunicazioni	Comunicazioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dipartimento	dipartimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
secretazione	secretazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
protetto	protetto	NOUN	S	compound
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
supporti	supporto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	amod
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Terminate	terminate	ADJ	A	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
taluna	taluno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
coperta	coprire	VERB	V	ccomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
risposta	risposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
inviate	inviare	VERB	V	acl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inquinamento	inquinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	csubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interrompere	interrompere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustificazione	giustificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oppone	opporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
acquisisce	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
opposizione	opposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
inibisce	inibire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
coperte	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
precluso	precludere	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
autonomi	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obl
coperte	coprire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sollevato	sollevare	VERB	V	advcl
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolto	risogliere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
opporlo	oppore lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
conflitto	conflitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolto	risogliere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
opposto	opposto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
nessun	nessuno	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
opponibile	opponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segretezza	segretezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
271	271	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieti	Divieti	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
268	268	NUM	N	conj
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
captatore	captatore	NOUN	S	nmod
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
portatile	portatile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzativo	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	flat
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
fatti	fatto	VERB	S	obj
conosciuti	conosciuto	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deposto	deporre	VERB	V	advcl
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
divulgati	divulgato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intercettazioni	intercettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distrutta	distruggere	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
corpo	corpo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
272	272	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limitazioni	Limitazioni	PROPN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitate	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
273	273	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nessuno	nessuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
192	192	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
203	203	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
271	271	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nessuna	nessuno	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compiuto	compiere	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustificazione	giustificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
punibilità	punibilità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
274	274	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esigenze	Esigenze	PROPN	SP	nmod
cautelari	cautelari	VERB	SP	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iderogabili	iderogabile	ADJ	A	conj
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
genuinità	genuinità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fondate	fondato	ADJ	A	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevabile	rilevabile	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addebiti	addebite	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dia	diare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	V	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunte	desunte	ADV	B	advmod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	obl
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
desunta	desuntare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
concreti	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
penali	penale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
commetta	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diretti	diretto	VERB	V	conj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
criminalità	criminalità	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzata	organizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
trattasi	trattasare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunte	desunte	ADV	B	advmod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
275	275	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Criteri	criteri	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scelta	scelta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	ROOT
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
emergere	emergere	VERB	V	ccomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proporzionata	proporzionare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
condizionale	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
280	280	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
irrogata	irrogato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sarà	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
423-bis	423-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
572	572	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612-ter	612-ter	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
624-bis	624-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inadeguatezza	inadeguatezza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
284	284	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
387-bis	387-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
582	582	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
576	576	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
577	577	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposte	disposta	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
sussistere	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	advcl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
indole	indole	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
cumulativamente	cumulativamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	conj
inadeguate	inadeguato	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
270-bis	270-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpevolezza	colpevolezza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
575	575	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quinquies	600-quinquies	NOUN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
contemplate	contemplato	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	ccomp
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	VERB	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
APRILE	APRILE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	conj
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
180	180	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181	181	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
182	182	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
185	185	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
197	197	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
224	224	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inidonea	inidoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
donna	donna	NOUN	V	ROOT
incinta	incinto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
madre	madre	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lei	lei	PRON	PE	obl
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
padre	padre	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deceduta	decedere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
impossibilitata	impossibilitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prole	prole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	conj
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
imputato	imputare	VERB	V	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
superato	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
età	età	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
settanta	settanta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181a	181a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
affetta	affettare	VERB	V	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
AIDS	AIDS	PROPN	SP	nmod
conclamata	conclamare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	conj
immunitaria	immunitario	ADJ	A	amod
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
286-bis	286-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	conj
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
tali	tale	PRON	PD	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
cure	cura	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitarie	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziarie	penitenziaria	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglienza	accoglienza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
affetta	affettare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
AIDS	AIDS	PROPN	SP	obl
conclamata	conclamare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	conj
immunitaria	immunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
malattie	malattia	NOUN	S	nmod
infettive	infettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ospedaliere	ospedaliere	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
universitarie	universitario	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	det
unità	unità	NOUN	S	conj
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
prevalentemente	prevalentemente	ADV	B	advmod
impegnate	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
piani	piano	NOUN	S	obl
regionali	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
AIDS	AIDS	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
collettiva	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
casa	casa	NOUN	S	conj
alloggio	alloggio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
135	135	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
imputato	imputare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
dotato	dotato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reparto	reparto	NOUN	S	obl
attrezzato	attrezzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-quinquies	4-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
malattia	malattia	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
avanzata	avanzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esterno	esterno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terapie	terapia	NOUN	S	conj
curative	curativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Particolari	Particolari	ADJ	A	nmod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
le	il	DET	RD	det
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
inclusa	includere	VERB	V	acl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputare	NOUN	S	nsubj
neghi	negare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
anzidetti	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
accetta	accettare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nega	negare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	dep
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obj
impostegli	impostegli	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
276	276	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
imposte	imporre	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cumulo	cumulo	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	PI	dep
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
interdittiva	interdittivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
cumulo	cumulo	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
coercitiva	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	conj
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
dotato	dotato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reparto	reparto	NOUN	S	obl
attrezzato	attrezzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
allontanarsi	allontanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
privata	privato	ADJ	A	nmod
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
manomissione	manomissione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	NUM	N	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
condotte	condotto	NOUN	S	conj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
reiterate	reiterare	VERB	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ostacolano	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

salvo	salvo	ADV	B	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
276-bis	276-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	conj
pericolose	pericoloso	ADJ	A	amod
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuto	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	S	obl
evada	evada	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenti	tente	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	A	advcl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
ponga	pongo	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
atti	atto	NOUN	S	advcl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compromettono	compromettono	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotta	condurre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prole	prole	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
preminente	preminente	ADJ	A	amod
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minore	minore	ADJ	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
seguirla	seguire la	VERB	V_PC	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
dotato	dotato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reparto	reparto	NOUN	S	obl
attrezzato	attrezzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prole	prole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotta	condurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
minore	minore	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
277	277	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Salvaguardia	salvaguardia	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
salvaguardare	salvaguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompatibile	incompatibile	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
concreto	concreto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
278	278	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
recidiva	recidivo	NOUN	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuante	attenuante	ADJ	B	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	SP	nmod
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
279	279	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutive	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
MISURE	MISURE	PROPN	SP	nmod
COERCITIVE	COERCITIVE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
280	280	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tentati	tentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanziamento	finanziamento	NOUN	S	nmod
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partiti	partito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
195	195	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
trasgredito	trasgredire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
387-bis	387-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
582	582	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
576	576	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5.1	5.1	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
577	577	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
281	281	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
uscire	uscire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impedire	impedire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaporto	passaporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nmod
validi	valido	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
282	282	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Allontanamento	allontanamento	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
lasciare	lasciare	VERB	V	acl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obj
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
farvi	fare vi	VERB	V_PC	conj
rientro	rientro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accedervi	accedere vi	VERB	V_PC	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
visita	visita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvicinarsi	avvicinare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
frequentazione	frequentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	conj
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ingiungere	ingiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
periodico	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
conviventi	convivente	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimangano	rimangano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prive	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
adeguati	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nmod
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligato	obbligare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegno	assegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versato	versare	VERB	V	ccomp
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
datore	datore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detraendolo	detraendolo	NOUN	S	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
retribuzione	retribuzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
spettante	spettantire	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Essi	Essi	PRON	PE	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
perde	perdere	VERB	V	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
efficacia	efficaciare	VERB	V	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perde	perdere	VERB	V	advcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sopravvenga	sopravvenire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
coniugi	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
290	290	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
295	295	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
mutano	mutare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligato	obbligare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
riprende	riprendere	VERB	A	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
570	570	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
571	571	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
572	572	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
575	575	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
tentato	tentato	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
582	582	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
procedibili	procedibile	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
aggravate	aggravato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
583-quinquies	583-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600	600	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-bis	600-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-ter	600-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-quater	600-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-septies.1	600-septies.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
600-septies.2	600-septies.2	NOUN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
601	601	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
602	602	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-ter	609-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quinquies	609-quinquies	NOUN	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-octies	609-octies	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
612	612	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
612-bis	612-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convivente	convivente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
280	280	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquecento	cinquecento	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
frequentazione	frequentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	conj
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputare	NOUN	S	nsubj
neghi	negare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
anzidette	anzidetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
delegato	delegare	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	obj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
inclusa	includere	VERB	V	advcl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
impone	imporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvicinamento	avvicinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvicinamento	avvicinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvicinarsi	avvicinare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offesa	NOUN	S	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquecento	cinquecento	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
280	280	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvicinamento	avvicinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputare	NOUN	S	nsubj
neghi	negare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consenso	consenso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organo	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
delegato	delegare	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fattibilità	fattibilità	NOUN	S	obj
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
inclusa	includere	VERB	V	advcl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
operativa	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
impone	imporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
congiunta	congiunto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avvicinarsi	avvicinare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	advmod
frequentati	frequentare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	DET	DD	det
conviventi	convivento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
legate	legare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
affettiva	affettire	VERB	V	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinquecento	cinquecento	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disponendo	disponere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
275-bis	275-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vietare	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
frequentazione	frequentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sia	essere	AUX	CC	cc
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
abitative	abitativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
imporre	imporre	VERB	V	conj
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
282-quater	282-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Obblighi	Obblighi	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
munizioni	munizione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offeso	ADJ	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
sottopone	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
positivamente	positivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
organizzato	organizzare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informata	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
283	283	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dimorare	dimorare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accedervi	accedere vi	VERB	V_PC	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
allontanarsi	allontanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	amod
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
viciniore	viciniore	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
personalità	personalità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
garantisce	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
adeguatamente	adeguatamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preferibilmente	preferibilmente	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ubicato	ubicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
abituale	abituale	ADJ	A	nmod
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
fisserà	fissare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
orari	orario	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sarà	essere	AUX	V	cop
quotidianamente	quotidianamente	ADV	B	advmod
reperibile	reperibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
orari	orario	NOUN	S	conj
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
separato	separato	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
allontanarsi	allontanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	DET	DI	det
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
normali	normale	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alloggio	alloggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
tossicodipendente	tossicodipendente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcooldipendente	alcooldipendente	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obj
terapeutico	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
prosegua	prosegua	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dei	Dei	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
vigila	vigilare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fa	fare	VERB	V	conj
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
284	284	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Arresti	Arresti	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	obj
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
allontanarsi	allontanare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
privata	privato	ADJ	A	nmod
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
istituita	istituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
casa	casa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
famiglia	famiglio	ADJ	S	compound
protetta	protetto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181a	181a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
prioritarie	prioritario	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
occupato	occupato	ADJ	V	acl
abusivamente	abusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
impone	imporre	VERB	V	ROOT
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divieti	divieto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
coabitano	coabitano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
assistono	assistere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
indispensabili	indispensabile	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
versa	verso	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluta	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
indigenza	indigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzarlo	autorizzare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assentarsi	assentare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
controllare	controllare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
imposte	imporre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concessi	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	VERB	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rapide	rapido	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181a	181a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinario	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
posti	posto	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
285	285	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
catturato	catturare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rimanervi	rimanere vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
subire	subire	VERB	V	ROOT
limitazione	limitazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
subita	subito	ADJ	V	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computa	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
657	657	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
subita	subire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
estradizione	estradizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovamento	rinnovamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
285-bis	285-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custodia	Custodia	PROPN	SP	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
padre	padre	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deceduta	decedere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
impossibilitata	impossibilitare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prole	prole	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consentano	consentano	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
donna	donna	NOUN	S	advcl
incinta	incinto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
madre	madre	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
detenute	detenuta	NOUN	S	obl
madri	madre	NOUN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181a	181a	NUM	N	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
181a	181a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
62	62	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	xcomp
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
completa	completo	ADJ	A	amod
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piano	piano	NOUN	S	nmod
straordinario	straordinario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
posti	posto	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
legislazione	legislazione	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuata	attenuato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
286	286	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Custodia	custodia	PROPN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
infermità	infermità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
diminuisce	diminuire	VERB	V	conj
grandemente	grandemente	ADJ	A	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
intendere	intendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
volere	volere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
psichiatrico	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
ospedalie7ro	ospedalie7ro	VERB	V_PC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottando	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
prevenire	prevenire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	PRON	PC	obj
ricovero	ricoverare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
infermo	infermo	ADJ	A	ccomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	mente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
285	285	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
286-bis	286-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanità	sanità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
AIDS	AIDS	PROPN	SP	nmod
conclamata	conclamare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	conj
immunitaria	immunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diagnostiche	diagnostico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
medico	medico	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
diagnostiche	diagnostico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
terapeutiche	terapeutico	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	DET	DD	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
soddisfatte	soddisfatre	VERB	A	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricovero	ricovero	NOUN	S	obj
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Servizio	Servizio	NOUN	SP	nmod
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottando	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Cessate	Cessate	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
MISURE	MISURE	PROPN	SP	nmod
INTERDITTIVE	INTERDITTIVE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
287	287	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
288	288	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	Sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
genitoriale	genitoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
priva	privare	ADJ	V	ROOT
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
libertà	libertà	NOUN	S	nmod
sessuale	sessuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
530	530	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
571	571	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	amod
congiunti	congiunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289	289	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
interdice	interdice	ADJ	V	ROOT
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagato	indagare	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
65	65	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
elettivi	elettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ricoperti	ricoprire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
diretta	diretta	NOUN	S	obl
investitura	investituro	ADJ	A	amod
popolare	popolare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
289-bis	289-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Divieto	divieto	PROPN	SP	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
contrattare	contrattare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
interdice	interdice	ADJ	V	acl
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concludere	concludere	VERB	V	acl
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
290	290	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprenditoriali	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esercitare	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
direttivi	direttivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
interdice	interdice	ADJ	V	ROOT
temporaneamente	temporaneamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
economia	economia	NOUN	S	conj
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
consorzi	consorzio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
353	353	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
355	355	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
373	373	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
380	380	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
381	381	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
287	287	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
FORMA	FORMA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ED	ED	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ESECUZIONE	ESECUZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
PROVVEDIMENTI	PROVVEDIMENTI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
291	291	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
applicativo	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
conferiti	conferire	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
archivio	archivio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
269	269	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
deduzioni	deduzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	conj
difensive	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
depositate	depositato	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

-	-	PUNCT	FF	ROOT

Quando	quando	ADV	B	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
riprodotti	riprodovere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
brani	brano	NOUN	S	nsubj
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
intercettate	intercettare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
compiuta	compiuta	NOUN	S	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
289	289	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
65	65	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sussista	sussistare	NOUN	S	obl
taluna	taluno	ADJ	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-sexies	1-sexies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
abbreviare	abbreviare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compare	comparire	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
addurre	addurre	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legittimo	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rintracciata	rintracciare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
esaurienti	esauriente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-septies	1-septies	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
valgono	valere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
identificare	identificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentarsi	presentare si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensiva	comprensivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accusa	accusa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
informare	informare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	conj
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-octies	1-octies	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-sexies	1-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
depositati	depositato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
intercettate	intercettato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasposizione	trasposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	nmod
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-novies	1-novies	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
documentato	documentare	VERB	V	ROOT
integralmente	integralmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inutilizzabilità	inutilizzabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
141-bis	141-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
incompetenza	incompetenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
patrimoniali	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
provvisorie	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
292	292	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ordinanza	Ordinanza	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevabile	rilevabile	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quanto	quanto	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
valga	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarlo	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
sommaria	sommario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violate	violato	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
giustificano	giustificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
concreto	concreto	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunti	desunto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
assumono	assumere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concrete	concreto	ADJ	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	conj
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
soddisfatte	soddisfatto	VERB	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L	L	DET	RD	obj
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ausiliario	ausiliario	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
assiste	assistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
probabilmente	probabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
358	358	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
327-bis	327-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
esposti	esporre	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
intercettate	intercettato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riprodotti	riprodovere	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
brani	brano	NOUN	S	nsubj
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
compiuta	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
incertezza	incertezza	NOUN	S	nsubj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
esime	esimere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
darvi	darvi	VERB	V_B	obl:agent
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preceduta	precedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-septies	1-septies	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-octies	1-octies	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Adempimenti	Adempimenti	NOUN	S	nmod
esecutivi	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
156	156	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
consegna	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
unitamente	unitamente	ADJ	B	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redatta	redaggere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
chiara	chiaro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
precisa	preciso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosce	conoscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obj
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tradotta	tradottare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
informa	informare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
nominare	nominare	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrocinio	patrocinio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent

;	;	PUNCT	FC	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accusa	accusa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interprete	interprete	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
traduzione	traduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
fondamentali	fondamentale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondere	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
informare	informare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	conj
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
medica	medico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	acl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
applicata	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	ADJ	NO	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
dinanzi	dinanzi	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
impugnare	impugnare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiederne	richiedere ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	DET	RD	det
-	-	PUNCT	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmi	programma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
riparativa	riparativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
prontamente	prontamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
comprensibile	comprensibile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	acl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	appos
scritta	scrittare	ADJ	V	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediato	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fiducia	fiducia	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
97	97	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
redige	redigere	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
compiute	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendo	fare	VERB	V	advcl
menzione	menzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
incaricato	incaricare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevi	rilevare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesso	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	PI	amod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
285-bis	285-bis	NUM	N	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituto	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
notificate	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesse	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
estrarre	estrarre	VERB	V	conj
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbali	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	conj
intercettate	intercettare	ADJ	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasposizione	trasposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
supporto	supporto	NOUN	S	obl
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
interdittiva	interdittivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interdizione	interdizione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
madre	madre	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prole	prole	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
294	294	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
deciso	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indiziato	indiziare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
assolutamente	assolutamente	ADV	B	advmod
impedita	impedito	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
AGOSTO	AGOSTO	NOUN	SP	nmod
1995	1995	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	nsubj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
interdittiva	interdittivo	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ccomp
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	CCONJ	CC	mark
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informato	informare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
completare	completare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
informazione	informazione	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	A	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	PUNCT	RD	punct
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluto	assoluto	ADJ	A	amod
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
accerta	accerto	ADJ	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
permangono	permangere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
274	274	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
275	275	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condotto	condurre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
65	65	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
intervenire	intervenire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
tempestivo	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
delegato	delegare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatori	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
organo	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritenga	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	csubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
precedere	precedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ciò	ciò	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	ADJ	A	amod
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
audiovisiva	audiovisivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	conj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riproduzione	riproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fonografica	fonografico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
133-ter	133-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
295	295	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vane	vano	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rintracciata	rintracciare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	nsubj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	conj
ugualmente	ugualmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
specificamente	specificamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
svolte	svolto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
esaurienti	esauriente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
latitante	latitante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
267	267	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
telefoniche	telefonico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazione	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
269	269	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
270	270	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
presenti	presente	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
latitante	latitante	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
assise	assise	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
296	296	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L	L	PROPN	RD	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	nummod
t	t	CCONJ	CC	fixed
i	il	DET	PC	det
t	t	CCONJ	CC	obl
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
n	n	X	X	fixed
z	z	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
latitante	latitante	ADJ	A	ROOT
chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresti	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
espatrio	espatrio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dimora	dimora	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
consegue	conseguire	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
applicativa	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dimostrano	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrarvisi	sottrarvisi	PROPN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
designa	designare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
latitante	latitante	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
privo	privo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	A	amod
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rimasta	rimanere	VERB	V	amod
ineseguita	ineseguire	ADJ	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	obl
operano	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
latitante	latitante	ADJ	S	nmod
permane	permanere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
perso	perdere	VERB	V	advcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
estinti	estire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
latitanza	latitanza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
comunicata	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
latitante	latitante	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
equiparato	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
evaso	evaso	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
297	297	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
le	le	PRON	PC	det
dispone	disporre	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesse	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
benchè	benchè	AUX	CS	nsubj
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
circostanziato	circostanziare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualificato	qualificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	det
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurati	commisurare	VERB	V	conj
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
imputazione	imputazione	NOUN	S	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
desumibili	desumibile	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
disposto	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
144	144	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
182	182	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
notificatal'	notificatalo	ADV	B	advmod
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dispone	dispone	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
internamento	internamento	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
compatibile	compatibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
internamento	internamento	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
298	298	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
carcerazione	carcerazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
espiazione	espiazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espiata	espiare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
alternative	alternativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ESTINZIONE	ESTINZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELLE	DELLE	PROPN	SP	case
MISURE	MISURE	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
299	299	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Revoca	Revoca	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
mancanti	mancante	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
attenuate	attenuato	ADJ	A	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
applicata	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appare	apparire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
proporzionata	proporzionato	ADJ	A	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
irrogata	irrogare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
gravose	gravoso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
286	286	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	amod
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
violenza	violenza	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicati	comunicato	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
socio	socio	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
assistenziali	assistenziale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
nominato	nominare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
antimafia	antimafia	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inefficacia	inefficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
286	286	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancelleria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-quater	2-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
362	362	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prefetto	prefetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
espresse	espresse	VERB	V	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
riunioni	riunione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
133	133	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
dinamica	dinamico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	obl
trimestrale	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedono	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
286	286	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
termine	termine	NOUN	S	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
assume	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
probatorio	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sentire	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esprime	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
parere	parere	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
addotti	addotto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	advcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
vatutati	vatutato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
assumere	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
276	276	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelario	ADJ	A	amod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
aggravate	aggravare	VERB	B	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
gravose	gravoso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
interdittiva	interdittivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggravamento	aggravamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comportare	comportare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
rimette	rimettere	VERB	V	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
collegio	collegio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	PRON	PI	amod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
gravose	gravoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	advcl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
formula	formulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
282-bis	282-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282-ter	282-ter	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
283	283	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
284	284	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
285	285	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
286	286	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
richiedente	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
in	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eleggere	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
presto	presto	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pervenuta	pervenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
basata	basare	VERB	V	advcl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tali	tale	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
segnalate	segnalare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sanitario	sanitario	ADJ	A	amod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accogliere	accogliere	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
immediatezza	immediatezza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
medici	medico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nominando	nominare	VERB	VA	advcl
perito	perire	VERB	V	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
tener	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parere	parere	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medico	medico	NOUN	S	nmod
penitenziario	penitenziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevata	rilevato	ADJ	A	amod
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giomi	giomo	NOUN	S	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-quater	4-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
286-bis	286-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
300	300	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricovero	ricovero	VERB	V	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ospedale	ospedale	NOUN	S	obl
psichiatrico	psichiatrico	ADJ	A	amod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
312	312	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrogata	irrogato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
estinta	estinta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizionalmente	condizionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
subita	subire	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
irrogata	irrogato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutivo	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuta	mantenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	PRON	PI	obl
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prosciolto	prosciolto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emessa	emessa	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disposgere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
301	301	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
probatorie	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
305	305	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
308	308	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	CCONJ	V	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richieste	richiesta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
investigazioni	investigazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complesse	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
molteplicità	molteplicità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	det:poss
collegati	collegato	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elevato	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offese	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	appos
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	conj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
dichiesta	dichiesta	NOUN	S	obl
inoltrata	inoltrare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impedito	impedire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misera	misera	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previ	prevere	VERB	S	conj
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	xcomp
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
302	302	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	nmod
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposta	disporre	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutati	valutare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
risultati	risultato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
274	274	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
275	275	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
rendere	rendere	VERB	V	xcomp
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
82	82	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
303	303	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	B	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
abbreviato	abbreviare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
438	438	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
preveda	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nsubj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentati	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
imputato	imputare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
residua	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ridotti	ridotto	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
abbreviato	abbreviare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
442	442	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nove	nove	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d)dalla	d)da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotese	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condanna	condanna	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	A	amod
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
regredisca	regredire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinviato	rinviato	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regresso	regresso	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenuta	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
142	142	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ripristinata	ripristinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
proroghe	proroga	NOUN	S	xcomp
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
305	305	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
304	304	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinviato	rinviato	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
impedimento	impedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinviato	rinviato	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allontanamento	allontanamento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	conj
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rendano	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
privo	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obl
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
imputati	imputato	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
comparizione	comparizione	NOUN	S	nmod
predibattimentale	predibattimentale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
544	544	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
abbreviato	abbreviare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
544	544	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
545-	545-	NUM	N	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorrente	intercorrente	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	conj
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
689	689	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dibattimenti	dibattimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizi	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
abbreviati	abbreviato	ADJ	A	acl
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complessi	complesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
udienze	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
delibera	deliberare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinviata	rinviare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
abbreviato	abbreviato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coimputati	coimputato	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
previa	previo	ADJ	V	advcl
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriore	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
aumentati	aumentare	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
contestato	contestato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparata	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obl
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
305	305	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Proroga	Proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	V	advcl
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nsubj
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mente	menta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perizia	perizia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
areticolo	areticolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
prossimi	prossimo	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
scadere	scadere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complessi	complesso	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
415-bis	415-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rendano	rendano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
indispensabile	indispensabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
protrarsi	protrarsi	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
appellabile	appellabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
superati	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
306	306	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
liberazione	liberazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
307	307	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scarcerazione	scarcerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
scarcerato	scarcerare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avevano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
taluno	taluno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
281	281	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
282	282	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
283	283	NUM	N	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
cumulativamente	cumulativamente	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
ripristinata	ripristinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dolosamente	dolosamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasgredito	trasgredire	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
trasgressione	trasgressione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorra	ricorrere	VERB	S	advcl
taluna	taluna	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorre	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigenza	esigenza	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	ROOT
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
computo	computo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
subita	subito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasgredendo	trasgredere	VERB	V	dep
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell	nell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
stia	stare	AUX	V	dep
per	per	ADP	E	mark
darsi	dare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fuga	fuga	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
indiziato	indiziare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
cessa	cessare	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	VERB	V	xcomp
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
308	308	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termini	Termini	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
coercitive	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
durata	durata	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
perdono	perdere	VERB	V	conj
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
probatorie	probatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporne	dispore ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
pregiudica	pregiudicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
accessorie	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
interdittive	interdittivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
274	274	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
309	309	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riesame	Riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratti	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
latitante	latitante	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
165	165	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sopravviene	sopravvienere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	ADJ	A	amod
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
computano	computano	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colloquio	colloquio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
cura	cura	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
sopravvenuti	sopravvenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
enunciare	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
facendone	fare ne	VERB	S	obj
dare	dare	VERB	V	conj
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	V	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	conj
distaccata	distaccato	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminarli	esaminare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrarne	estrare ne	VERB	V_PC	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	acl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
una	uno	DET	RI	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
prevede	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
vi	vi	ADV	B	advmod
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annulla	annulla	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riforma	riforma	NOUN	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conferma	confermare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	A	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
decidendo	decidere	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
addotti	addotto	VERB	S	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
annullare	annullare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riformarlo	riformare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
favorevole	favorevole	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
confermarlo	confermare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
annulla	annullare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
impugnato	impugnato	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
274	274	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
formulata	formulato	VERB	V	acl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
differisce	differiscere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	V	advcl
giustificati	giustificare	VERB	V	nsubj
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intervengono	intervengere	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advmod
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stesura	stesura	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complessa	complesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arrestati	arrestato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarantacinquesimo	quarantacinquesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
204	204	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
310	310	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
A	A	PROPN	SP	compound
p	p	X	X	fixed
p	p	X	X	fixed
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l	L	DET	RD	det
l	l	X	RD	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enunciandone	enunciandone	VERB	V	advcl
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dell	Dell	PROPN	S	nsubj:pass
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
appello	appello	NOUN	S	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
appellata	appellato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esaminarli	esaminare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrarne	estrare ne	VERB	V_PC	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
depositata	depositare	VERB	A	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stesura	stesura	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cop
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complessa	complesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arrestati	arrestato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
lungo	lungo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quarantacinquesimo	quarantacinquesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accogliendo	accogliere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	advcl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
311	311	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricorso	Ricorso	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
emesse	emettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
310	310	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cura	cura	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ccomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorrente	ricorrente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
enunciare	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
corte	corte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127.(274)(278	127.(274)(278	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annullata	annullare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	ADJ	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intervengono	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
coercitiva	coercitire	VERB	V	amod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salva	ADJ	A	amod
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	advmod
motivate	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
rinnovata.(274)(278	rinnovata.(274)(278	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
312	312	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
provvisoria	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

PMT114	PMT114	NOUN	S	ROOT

PMP118	PMP118	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
313	313	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
292	292	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
294	294	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
detentiva	detentivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
299	299	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pericolosità	pericolosità	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazioni	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
312	312	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparata	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingiusta	ingiusta	ADJ	A	amod
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
314	314	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposti	Presupposti	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PQ	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prosciolto	prosciogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
perché	perché	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
equa	equo	ADJ	A	amod
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
subita	subito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dato	dare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darvi	dare vi	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
incide	incidere	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prosciolto	prosciolto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sussistessero	sussistessero	ADJ	A	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
273	273	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
280	280	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	PR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computata	computare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sofferte	sofferto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affermato	affermare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
abrogazione	abrogazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
incriminatrice	incriminatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
sofferta	sofferto	VERB	V	advcl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
abrogazione	abrogazione	NOUN	S	obl
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
315	315	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	ROOT
inoppugnabile	inoppugnabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
314	314	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	ROOT
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obj
un	uno	NUM	N	det
miliardo	miliardo	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riparazione	riparazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
errore	errore	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
316	316	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presupposti	Presupposti	NOUN	SP	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	advcl
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
manchino	manchino	NOUN	S	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
disperdano	disperdare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
omicidio	omicidio	NOUN	S	nmod
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
separato	separare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
divorziato	divorziare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unione	unione	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
cessata	cessato	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legata	legare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
affettiva	affettire	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	conj
convivenza	convivenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
rileva	rilevare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittima	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
minorenni	minorenne	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiorenni	maggiorenne	ADJ	A	conj
economicamente	economicamente	NOUN	S	dep
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autosufficienti	autosufficiere	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danni	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
subiti	subire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vittime	vittima	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fondata	fondare	VERB	V	ROOT
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
manchino	manchino	NOUN	S	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
disperdano	disperdare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
giova	giovare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
privilegiati	privilegiato	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
privilegiato	privilegiare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
sorti	sorgere	VERB	V	acl
posteriormente	posteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
privilegi	privilegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
317	317	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Forma	Forma	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinato	ordinare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciato	pronunciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziario	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
578	578	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	gli	DET	NO	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
cessano	cessare	VERB	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cancellazione	cancellazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
incidente	incidente	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
318	318	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riesame	Riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
319	319	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Offerta	Offerta	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
offre	offrire	VERB	V	advcl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
faccia	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
proporzionata	proporzionato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
offre	offrire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	conj
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
320	320	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Esecuzione	Esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
conservativo	conservativo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
converte	convertire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
pignoramento	pignoramento	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
diventa	diventare	VERB	V	parataxis
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
condanna	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
539	539	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salva	salvare	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
ordinarie	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rimangono	rimanere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
forzata	forzato	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
ricavato	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	conj
depositate	depositare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devolute	devolere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cassa	cassa	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammende	ammenda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
processuali	processuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SEQUESTRO	SEQUESTRO	PROPN	SP	nmod
PREVENTIVO	PREVENTIVO	PROPN	SP	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
321	321	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
pertinente	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
aggravare	aggravare	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
protrarre	protrarre	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pronunciarsi	pronunciare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
mancanti	mancante	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
vada	andare	VERB	V	ccomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
respinta	respinto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
situazione	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attendere	attendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivare	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obl
procedono	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
perde	perdere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservati	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
emette	emettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
321-bis	321-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reintegrazione	Reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
pertinenze	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
arbitraria	arbitrario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
634-bis	634-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nsubj
occupato	occupato	ADJ	V	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ricevono	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
634-bis	634-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espletati	espletare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
volti	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitrarietà	arbitrarietà	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
recano	recare	VERB	V	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
denunziante	denunziante	VERB	S	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spossessato	spossessare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
fondati	fondato	VERB	V	xcomp
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrarietà	arbitrarietà	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordinano	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupante	occupante	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
reintegrano	reintegrare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
resistenza	resistenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
rifiuto	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupante	occupante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	conj
fondati	fondato	VERB	V	xcomp
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arbitrarietà	arbitrarietà	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupazione	occupazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
coattivamente	coattivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
reintegrano	reintegrare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
confermata	confermare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	conj
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
redigono	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
verbale	verbale	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
enunciando	enunciare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
destinataria	destinatario	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
reintegrazione	reintegrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
perde	perdere	VERB	V	advcl
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservati	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
emette	emettere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occupante	occupante	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	vocative
322	322	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riesame	Riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
322-bis	322-bis	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Appello	Appello	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
322	322	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
appello	appello	NOUN	S	obj
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	V	aux
sede	sede	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
310	310	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
323	323	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Perdita	Perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
preventivo	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituite	restituire	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
esecutivo	esecutivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistono	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
esemplari	esemplare	NOUN	S	nsubj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cosa	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrata	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	conj
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
esemplari	esemplare	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
permangono	permangere	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	PR	mark
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
mantenuto	mantenere	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
316	316	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
IMPUGNAZIONI	IMPUGNAZIONI	DET	RD	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
324	324	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	nmod
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
582	582	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
detenuto	detenere	VERB	V	acl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
internato	internare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questi	questo	PRON	PD	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	conj
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
omesso	omesso	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
dichiarare	dichiarare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
procedente	procedente	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
su	su	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
enunciati	enunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
ha	avere	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
enunciare	enunciare	VERB	V	acl
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facendone	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dare	dare	VERB	V	ccomp
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discussione	discussione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provincia	provincia	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	V	aux
sede	sede	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
davanti	davanti	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
svolge	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
274	274	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
278	278	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mantenendo	mantenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frattempo	frattempo	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
325	325	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ricorso	Ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanze	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
emesse	emesso	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
322-	322-	NUM	N	nummod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
324	324	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sequestrate	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avrebbe	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
324	324	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposto	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
direttamente	diretto	ADV	B	advmod
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposizione	proposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
rende	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riesame	riesame	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

PARTE	PARTE	PROPN	SP	ROOT

SECONDA	SECONDA	ADJ	NO	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Libro	libro	NOUN	S	ROOT
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
INDAGINI	INDAGINI	PROPN	S	amod
PRELIMINARI	PRELIMINARI	PROPN	SP	appos
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
UDIENZA	UDIENZA	PROPN	SP	conj
PRELIMINARE	PRELIMINARE	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
326	326	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Finalità	Finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
327	327	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
dirige	dirigere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
continua	continuare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	xcomp
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
327-bis	327-bis	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
investigativa	investigativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fin	Fin	ADV	B	case
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	nmod
professionale	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
investigazioni	investigazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricercare	ricercare	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	conj
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
assistito	assistito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
VI	VI	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	nmod
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
promuovere	promuovere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
incarico	incarico	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituto	sostituto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
investigatori	investigatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
consulenti	consulente	NOUN	S	obl
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
328	328	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Giudice	Giudice	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-quater	1-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
51,comma	51,comma	NUM	N	nummod
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitate	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
magistrato	magistrato	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
capoluogo	capoluogo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distretto	distretto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
composizione	composizione	NOUN	S	obl
collegiale	collegiale	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	nmod
cautelare	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carcere	carcere	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
318	318	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
329	329	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
su	su	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
253	253	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
260	260	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
263	263	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
267	267	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
275	275	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pubblicati	pubblicato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
segreteria	segreteria	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
coperti	coprire	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
consente	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
altre	altro	DET	A	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
determinate	determinato	DET	DI	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
330	330	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
prendono	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevono	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentato	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
331	331	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Denuncia	Denuncia	PROPN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
incaricati	incaricare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
incaricati	incaricato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
perseguibile	perseguibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligate	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emerge	emergere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
configurare	configurare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
perseguibile	perseguibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
redige	redigere	VERB	V	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasmette	trasmettere	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
332	332	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
contiene	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
esposizione	esposizione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
essenziali	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
note	noto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contiene	Contiene	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
valga	valere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riferire	riferire	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obl
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
333	333	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Denuncia	Denuncia	PROPN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
perseguibile	perseguibile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
determina	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunciante	denunciante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denunce	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
anonime	anonimo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
240	240	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
334	334	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
R	R	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
f	f	X	X	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
r	r	CCONJ	CC	dep
t	t	CCONJ	CC	cc
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
referto	referto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
pervenire	pervenire	VERB	V	xcomp
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quarantotto	quarantotto	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	conj
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
opera	opera	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vicino	vicino	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
referto	referto	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sue	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attualmente	attualmente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
altro	altro	PRON	PI	obl
valga	valere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
identificarla	identificare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
servono	servire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
causato	causare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
causare	causare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
prestato	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
tutte	tutto	PRON	PI	nsubj
obbligate	obbligato	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
referto	referto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
redigere	redigere	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
334-bis	334-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esclusione	Esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
investigazione	investigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
difensiva	difensivo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
391-bis	391-bis	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
neppure	neppure	ADV	BN	advmod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	nmod
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
investigative	investigativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	AP	det:poss
svolte	svolta	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
335	335	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	ROOT
iscrive	iscrivo	ADJ	A	amod
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
custodito	custodire	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gli	gli	PRON	PC	iobj
perviene	pervienere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentazione	rappresentazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inverosimile	inverosimile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riconducibile	riconducibile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nmod
incriminatrice	incriminatore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indizi	indizio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
effettuata	effettuato	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
muta	muto	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualificazione	qualificazione	NOUN	S	obj
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
circostanziato	circostanziare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
cura	curare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiornamento	aggiornamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
407	407	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicate	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
offesa	offesa	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
respettivi	respettivo	ADJ	A	amod
difensori	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	advcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistono	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	advmod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
indagine	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
decidere	decidere	VERB	V	dep
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizioni	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rinnovabile	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Senza	senza	ADP	E	case
pregiudizio	pregiudizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segreto	segreto	NOUN	S	nmod
investigativo	investigativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorsi	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
informata	informare	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
circa	circa	ADV	B	advmod
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335-bis	335-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Limiti	Limiti	PROPN	SP	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mera	mero	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
pregiudizievoli	pregiudizievole	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335-ter	335-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ordine	Ordine	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
debba	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
iscritta	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
335-quater	335-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
335-quater	335-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempestività	tempestività	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
tempestività	tempestività	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
335	335	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
indichi	indico	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	la	PRON	PC	obj
sorreggono	sorreggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunto	desunto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disposto	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inequivocabile	inequivocabile	ADJ	A	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
giustificato	giustificare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	acl
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dimostrano	dimostrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ulteriori	Ulteriori	ADJ	A	amod
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
proposte	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fondate	fondato	ADJ	A	conj
su	su	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
precedenza	precedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conoscibili	conoscibile	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Durante	durante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
rilevante	rilevante	ADV	B	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trattata	trattare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisa	deciso	ADJ	A	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prenderne	prendere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
estrarne	estrare ne	VERB	V_PC	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entrambe	Entrambe	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
depositare	depositare	VERB	V	acl
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
memorie	memoria	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorso	Decorso	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	nsubj
orale	orale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fissa	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
camera	camera	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	nmod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	compound
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
compaiono	compaiire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
depositata	depositare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelleria	cancellerio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trattata	trattare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decisa	deciso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
iscritta	iscrittare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
nome	nome	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nmod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
respinta	respintare	VERB	V	ROOT
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
esaminata	esaminare	VERB	V	ccomp
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
491	491	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dibattimento	dibattimento	NOUN	S	obl
preceduto	precedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuovo	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
esame	esame	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
retrodatazione	retrodatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
avanzata	avanzare	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
preliminare	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
dibattimentale	dibattimentale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impugnata	impugnare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
586	586	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
293	293	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
336	336	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
manifesta	manifestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
proceda	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ordine	ordine	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
come	come	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
337	337	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	NOUN	CS	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
333	333	NUM	N	nummod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
agente	agente	NOUN	S	conj
consolare	consolare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essa	essa	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sottoscrizione	sottoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
recapitata	recapitare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
incaricato	incaricato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spedita	spedire	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
piego	piego	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandato	raccomandato	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	SCONJ	CS	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelante	querelante	PRON	PD	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	conj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
querela	querela	ADJ	NO	nmod
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fonte	fonte	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
propone	propone	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
338	338	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
121	121	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	obl
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obl
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	nmod
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
promossa	promuovere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cura	cura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minorenni	minorenne	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
costituirsi	costituire si	VERB	V_PC	acl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
offesa	offeso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
sopravviene	sopravvenire	ADJ	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
preliminari	preliminare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
339	339	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
sottoscritta	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
oralmente	oralmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
identità	identità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinunciante	rinunciante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redigono	redigere	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritto	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
produce	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
rinuncia	rinunciare	NOUN	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
risarcimento	risarcimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
danno	danno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
340	340	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Remissione	remissione	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procuratore	procuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
procedente	procedente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ufficiale	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
trasmetterla	trasmettere la	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	obl
espressa	espresso	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querelato	querelato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
remissione	remissione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
convenuto	convenuto	ADJ	A	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
341	341	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Istanza	Istanza	PROPN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
proposta	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
offesa	offesa	VERB	A	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
342	342	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritto	sottoscriggere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
343	343	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344	344	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
disporre	disporre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
fermo	fermo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
cautelari	cautelare	ADJ	A	amod
personali	personale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoporla	sottopore la	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
perquisizione	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
domiciliare	domiciliare	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
ricognizione	ricognizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
confronto	confronto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
intercettazione	intercettazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
conversazioni	conversazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interrogatorio	interrogatorio	NOUN	S	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
colta	cogliere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
380	380	NUM	N	nummod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compimento	compimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinati	determinato	DET	DI	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
costituzionali	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
tali	tali	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
344	344	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
345	345	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
346	346	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
compiuti	compiere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
344	344	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
emettere	emettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90a	90a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
arrestata	arrestare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
flagranza	flagranza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
convalida	convalida	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiede	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
proceduto	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
direttissimo	direttissimo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
formulate	formulare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
tarda	tardo	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessaria	necessario	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
344-bis	344-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Improcedibilità	Improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale.(279	penale.(279	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
costituisce	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale.(279	penale.(279	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
novantesimo	novantesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
544	544	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	mark
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
prorogato	prorogare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
transitorie	transitoria	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
particolarmente	particolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
complesso	complesso	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputazioni	imputazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
complessità	complessità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
questioni	questione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
trattare	trattare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prorogati	prorogare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
motivata	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ulteriori	Ulteriori	ADJ	A	amod
proroghe	proroga	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disposre	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
durata	durata	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terrorismo	terrorismo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
eversione	eversione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinamento	ordinamento	NOUN	S	nmod
costituzionale	costituzionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nsubj
stabilisce	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
270	270	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
306	306	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-bis	416-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
416-ter	416-ter	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-bis	609-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
aggravate	aggravato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
609-ter	609-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
609-quater	609-quater	NUM	N	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
609-octies	609-octies	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis.1	416-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stupefacenti	stupefacente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
psicotrope	psicotropo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cura	cura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riabilitazione	riabilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tossicodipendenza	tossicodipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
309	309	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Nondimeno	nondimeno	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
aggravati	aggravare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
416-bis.1	416-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
difensore	difensore	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
inammissibilità	inammissibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ordinanza	ordinanza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decide	decidere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
osservando	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
611	611	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
Corte	corte	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cassazione	cassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
inammissibile	inammissibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
questione	questione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riproposta	riproporre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sta	stare	AUX	VA	aux
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dibattimentale	dibattimentale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinnovazione	rinnovazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dibattimentale	dibattimentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
udienza	udienza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
eccedere	eccedere	VERB	V	ROOT
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	ROOT
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
598-	598-	NUM	N	nmod
ter	ter	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
citazione	citazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
613	613	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
sospesi	sospendere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imputati	imputato	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sta	stare	AUX	VA	aux
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
nuove	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
declaratoria	declaratoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
improcedibilità	improcedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imputato	imputato	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiede	chiedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
624	624	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obl
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
rinvio	rinvio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
appello	appello	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
novantesimo	novantesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
617	617	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	obl
puniti	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ergastolo	ergastolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
279	279	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
345	345	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedibilità	procedibilità	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riproponibilità	riproponibilità	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
archiviazione	archiviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proposta	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
querela	querela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	dep
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep