Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unito	unito	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vistato	vistare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proponente	proponente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
composto	comporre	ADJ	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
COSSIGA	COSSIGA	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ANDREOTTI	ANDREOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
FORMICA	FORMICA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CARLI	CARLI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CIRINO	CIRINO	PROPN	SP	nmod
POMICINO	POMICINO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
SCOTTI	SCOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

VASSALLI	VASSALLI	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TESTO	TESTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
UNICO	UNICO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DELLE	DELLE	DET	E_RD	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	PROPN	SP	nmod
CONCERNENTI	CONCERNENTI	PROPN	SP	acl
L'	il	DET	RD	det
IMPOSTA	IMPOSTA	PROPN	SP	obj
SULLE	SULLE	PROPN	SP	amod
SUCCESSIONI	SUCCESSIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
DONAZIONI	DONAZIONI	PROPN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
trust	trust	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
rinunzia	rinunzia	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assente	assente	ADJ	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
742	742	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
770	770	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
783	783	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nmod
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
risultanti	risultare	NOUN	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	conj
collegate	collegare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Territorialità	Territorialità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
trasferiti	trasferito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
donante	donare	VERB	V	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
residente	residente	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trust	trust	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
residente	residente	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
separazione	separazione	NOUN	S	nmod
patrimoniale	patrimoniale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sede	sede	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
serie	serie	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
rappresentativi	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cambiali	cambiale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
vaglia	vaglia	NOUN	S	conj
cambiari	cambiare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trattario	trattario	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
emittente	emittente	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
residente	residente	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
garantiti	garantire	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
viaggianti	viaggiare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
viaggianti	viaggiare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vincolati	vincolare	NOUN	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
temporanea	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Trasferimenti	Trasferimenti	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regioni	regione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciute	riconoscere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
studio	studio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
scientifica	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
educazione	educazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lucrative	lucrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	nmod
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ONLUS	ONLUS	PROPN	SP	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
461	461	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciute	riconoscere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
ricavata	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testatore	testatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donante	donare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	spazio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
reciprocità	reciprocità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
fondazioni	fondazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
associazioni	associazione	NOUN	S	conj
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
movimenti	movimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
partiti	partito	NOUN	S	conj
politici	politico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
patti	patto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
768-bis	768-bis	NUM	N	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rami	ramo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazioni	partecipazione	NOUN	S	obl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquisito	acquisire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2359	2359	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
esistente	esistere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rami	ramo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nsubj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
proseguano	proseguare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	iobj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
detengano	detengare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	iobj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
detengano	detengare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nsubj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
patto	patto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
apposita	apposito	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impegno	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
continuazione	continuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodi	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	obl
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
471	471	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	Spazio	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
adeguato	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------------	-------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Trust	Trust	PROPN	SP	parataxis
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
trust	trust	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevano	rilevare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
determinino	determinino	VERB	V	advcl
arricchimenti	arricchimente	ADJ	A	amod
gratuiti	gratuito	ADJ	A	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
denuncia	denunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
atto	atto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trust	trust	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
composti	composto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
franchigie	franchigia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trust	trust	PROPN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trust	trust	PROPN	SP	nmod
testamentario	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trustee	trustee	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
optare	optare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
franchigie	franchigia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	conj
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conferimento	conferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	csubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
calcola	calcolare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevata	elevato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
franchigie	franchigia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
56	56	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trust	trust	PROPN	SP	nmod
testamentario	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
trustee	trustee	NOUN	S	appos
opti	opto	NOUN	A	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	nmod
anticipata	anticipato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
assolta	assolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disponente	disponente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trustee	trustee	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trust	Trust	PROPN	SP	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soggetti	Soggetti	NOUN	S	nmod
passivi	passivo	NOUN	V	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donatari	donatario	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
vivi	vivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retto	VERB	V	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
genitori	genitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
figli	figlio	NOUN	S	conj
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ascendenti	ascendente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
discendenti	discendente	NOUN	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	obl
retta	retto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adottanti	adottanto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adottati	adottato	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
era	essere	VERB	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
residente	residente	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nota	noto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
devoluti	devoluto	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	NOUN	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
eccedente	eccedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sorelle	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
eccedente	eccedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

6	6	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
collaterale	collaterale	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

6	6	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
supera	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
1.500.000	1.500.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamata	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
considerando	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	V	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	ADV	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunziato	rinunziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asse	assa	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditario	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
compongono	comporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	conj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	Resta	VERB	V	ROOT
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviamento	avviamento	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoggettamento	assoggettamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sole	solo	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
pervengono	pervengere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
ereditarie	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legati	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
gravano	gravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legati	legare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gravati	gravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	VERB	S	parataxis
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	nmod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
formano	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gioielli	gioielli	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mobilia	mobilia	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
netto	netto	ADJ	A	xcomp
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asse	assa	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
da	da	ADP	E	case
inventario	inventario	ADJ	S	obl
analitico	analitico	ADJ	A	amod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
769	769	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
mobilia	mobilia	VERB	S	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ornamento	ornamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
69/1989	69/1989	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conv	conv	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
154/1989	154/1989	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presunzione	presunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
appartenenza	appartenenza	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	ROOT
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
portatore	portatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	PRON	PI	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cassette	cassetta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
cointestati	cointestato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	conj
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
postali	postale	ADJ	S	conj
cointestati	cointestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
uguali	uguale	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
determinate	determinato	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazioni	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
comprese	comprendere	ADV	S	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
clausola	clausola	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
costitutivo	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
patto	patto	NOUN	S	conj
parasociale	parasociale	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soci	socio	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accrescimento	accrescimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accrescimento	accrescimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
eredi	erede	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
aggiunge	aggiungere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
eredi	erede	ADJ	A	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
952/1977	952/1977	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Beni	Beni	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
formare	formare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provato	provare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
certa	certo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
aveva	avere	AUX	VA	aux
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
nominativi	nominativo	ADJ	A	amod
intestati	intestare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alienati	alienare	VERB	V	acl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
autentico	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
girata	girare	VERB	V	conj
autenticata	autenticato	VERB	V	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1751	1751	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2122	2122	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	conj
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assicurazioni	assicurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
stipulate	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
contestati	contestare	VERB	V	acl
giudizialmente	giudizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
transazione	transazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gestiscono	gestiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contributi	contributo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
debitrice	debitrice	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
ceduti	cedere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
buoni	buono	NOUN	S	amod
ordinari	ordinario	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	spazio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantiti	garantire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
emessi	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	conj
aderenti	aderente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Accordo	Accordo	PROPN	SP	obl
sullo	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Spazio	spazio	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bene	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	l	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	S	obl
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obj
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	flat:name
262	262	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	appos
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	Numero	PROPN	S	conj
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	flat:name
262	262	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	appos
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2006	2006	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	conj
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Beni	Beni	PROPN	SP	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assolti	assolti	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
conseguenti	conseguente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
debbano	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
particolareggiata	particolareggiato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organo	organo	NOUN	S	conj
periferico	periferico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cultura	cultura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
bene	bene	NOUN	S	obl
tutelato	tutelare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	VERB	V	conj
altri	altro	DET	DI	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
ereditari	ereditare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	V	nmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
alienazione	alienazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
decorso	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
tentata	tentato	ADJ	A	amod
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prelazione	prelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
competente	competente	ADJ	A	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inizia	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regione	regione	NOUN	S	nmod
siciliana	siciliano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
province	provincia	NOUN	S	conj
autonome	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Trento	Trento	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
Bolzano	Bolzano	PROPN	SP	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
provvedono	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obj
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Beni	Beni	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
venale	venale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
gravata	gravare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gravata	gravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abitazione	abitazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	appos
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
ottenuto	ottenere	ADJ	A	acl
moltiplicando	moltiplicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
saggio	saggio	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	prevedere	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	X	FC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enfiteuta	enfiteuta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
ventuplo	ventuplo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	appos
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affrancazione	affrancazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affrancazione	affrancazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Aziende	Aziende	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
navi	nave	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aeromoboli	aeromobolo	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	le	PRON	PC	obj
compongono	comporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2l	2l	ADJ	NO	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2217	2217	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
inventario	inventario	ADJ	S	obl
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mutamenti	mutamente	NOUN	S	nmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
intervenuti	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fanno	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
desunto	desunto	NOUN	S	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
praticati	praticare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
trascorso	trascorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conservazione	conservazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Azioni	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
sociali	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
quotati	quotare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziati	negoziare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
ristretto	ristretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
media	media	NOUN	S	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
compenso	compenso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maggiorata	maggiorato	VERB	S	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dietimi	dietimo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
maturati	maturare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitale	capitale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
quotate	quotare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziati	negoziare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
ristretto	ristretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
azionarie	azionario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADJ	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patrimonio	patrimonio	NOUN	S	conj
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
inventario	inventario	ADJ	S	conj
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mutamenti	mutamente	NOUN	S	nmod
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inventario	inventario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escludendo	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	ADJ	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
partecipazione	partecipazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
investimento	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	obl
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	A	conj
redatti	redatto	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
comparato	comparare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
quotati	quotare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
borsa	borsa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negoziati	negoziare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
ristretto	ristretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
desunto	desunto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certi	certo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rendite	rendite	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
rendite	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensioni	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	obl
perpetua	perpetuo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	conj
indeterminato	indeterminato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	ROOT
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
saggio	saggio	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
superare	superare	VERB	V	ROOT
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ottiene	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
moltiplicando	moltiplicare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
coefficiente	coefficiente	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obl
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
morte	morto	NOUN	S	nmod
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
cessare	cessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tratta	trattare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
vitalizia	vitalizia	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pensione	pensione	NOUN	S	conj
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
giovane	giovane	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
giovane	giovane	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accrescimento	accrescimento	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coefficienti	coefficiente	NOUN	S	nmod
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multiplo	multiplo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
annualità	annualità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
variati	variare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modificazione	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
saggio	saggio	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
detta	dire	NOUN	V	acl
modifica	modifica	NOUN	SP	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
intervenuta	intervenire	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	obl
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunto	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
saggio	saggio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2,5	2,5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Crediti	Crediti	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
fruttiferi	fruttifero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
importo	importo	NOUN	S	appos
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
maturati	maturato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	ROOT
infruttiferi	infruttiferio	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	N	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
saggio	saggio	NOUN	S	obl
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	VERB	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
semplici	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
nome	nome	NOUN	S	nmod
collettivo	collettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
accomandita	accomandita	NOUN	S	conj
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
equiparate	equiparare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2289	2289	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Altri	altro	DET	DI	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
assumendo	assumere	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
venale	venale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	flat:name
IMPOSTA	IMPOSTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLE	ALLE	DET	E_RD	case
SUCCESSIONI	SUCCESSIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
BASE	BASE	PROPN	SP	dep
IMPONIBILE	IMPONIBILE	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
PASSIVITÀ	PASSIVITÀ	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEDUCIBILI	DEDUCIBILI	PROPN	SP	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Passività	Passività	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
funerarie	funeraria	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	conj
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Condizioni	condizioni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
scritto	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
certa	certo	ADJ	A	amod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	nmod
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
cambiari	cambiario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
saldi	saldo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
tenute	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattario	trattario	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prenditore	prenditore	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituto	istitere	NOUN	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinato	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fine	fine	ADJ	A	amod
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamenti	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
previdenziali	previdenziale	ADJ	A	amod
integrativi	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
maturato	maturare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nsubj
continua	continuare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gestiscono	gestiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
forme	forma	NOUN	S	obj
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
previdenza	previdenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
sociale	sociale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	conj
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
presupposto	presupposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificato	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
data	data	ADJ	A	obl
posteriore	posteriore	NOUN	S	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
divorziato	divorziato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scioglimento	scioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
matrimonio	matrimonio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
15	15	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Limiti	Limiti	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
contratti	contratto	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	amod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
contratti	contratre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
distrutti	distruggere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
perduti	perduto	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
imputabile	imputabile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	A	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	conj
risultanti	risultare	VERB	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
data	data	VERB	S	obj
certa	certo	ADJ	A	amod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chirurgiche	chirurgico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricoveri	ricovero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
protesi	protendere	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
sé	sé	PRON	PE	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
familiare	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
computando	computare	VERB	V	advcl
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
interi	intero	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
computati	computare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
addebitamenti	addebitamente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	obl
emessi	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl
contratti	contratto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fatte	fare	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	conj
emessi	emettere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
arti	arte	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
professioni	professione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
bancari	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
addebitamenti	addebitamente	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
saldi	saldo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
bancari	bancario	NOUN	S	amod
cointestati	cointestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condebitori	condebitore	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
uguali	uguale	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
determinate	determinato	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
notarile	notarile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obl
notarile	notarile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattario	trattario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prenditore	prenditore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl
cambiari	cambiare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
creditrice	creditrice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quietanza	quietanza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciata	rilasciato	ADJ	A	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	NOUN	S	obl
ispettorato	ispettorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lavoratori	lavoratore	NOUN	S	nmod
dipendenti	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
deduzione	deduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
l	L	X	X	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
creditore	creditore	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
scritta	scritto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controfirmato	controfirmare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
attestare	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
specificazione	specificazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
debitori	debitore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
riporti	riporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
garanzie	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
sedi	sede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agenzie	agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filiali	filiale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ripartizioni	ripartizione	NOUN	S	conj
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banca	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	amod
intermediario	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
saldi	saldo	NOUN	S	obl
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
correnti	corrente	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodicesimo	dodicesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	obl
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranne	tranne	ADP	E	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	obl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
creditori	creditore	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
passività	passività	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legale	legale	NOUN	S	nmod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ente	ente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
firme	firma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autenticate	autenticare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prorogato	prorogato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	A	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
giurisdizionali	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
divenuto	divenire	VERB	V	acl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
funerarie	funerario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
mediche	medico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chirurgiche	chirurgico	ADJ	A	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
sostenute	sostenere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ricoveri	ricovero	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
protesi	protendere	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
regolari	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
quietanze	quietanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
di	di	ADP	E	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nsubj
funerarie	funerario	ADJ	A	amod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
regolari	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
quietanze	quietanza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	flat:name
IMPOSTA	IMPOSTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLE	ALLE	DET	E_RD	case
SUCCESSIONI	SUCCESSIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
RIDUZIONI	RIDUZIONI	NOUN	S	ROOT
E	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
DETRAZIONI	DETRAZIONI	PROPN	SP	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	parataxis
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riduzioni	riduzioni	PROPN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
aperta	aperto	ADJ	A	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	DET	DI	det
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
inversamente	inversamente	ADV	B	advmod
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	obl
trascorso	trascorso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
entrambe	entrambi	PRON	PI	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obl
particolareggiata	particolareggiato	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
periferico	periferico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
singolo	singolo	NOUN	S	obl
bene	bene	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
positivo	positivo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobile	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rustici	rustico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
costruzioni	costruzione	NOUN	S	obj
rurali	rurale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
insistenti	insistente	ADJ	A	advcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devoluti	devoluto	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sorelle	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	NO	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
103.291	103.291	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	PRON	PC	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	cc
coltivatore	coltivatore	ADJ	A	acl
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
devoluzione	devoluzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	ccomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
coltivatrice	coltivatore	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
risulti	risulgere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

È	essere	AUX	VA	cop
diretto	dirigere	ADJ	A	parataxis
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
coltivatrice	coltivatore	ADJ	A	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
dedica	dedicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abitualmente	abitualmente	ADV	B	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
governo	governo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bestiame	bestiame	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semprechè	sempreché	DET	T	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nsubj
lavorativa	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nucleo	nucleo	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
occorrente	occorrente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
normali	normale	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondo	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
governo	governo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bestiame	bestiame	PROPN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parti	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	ADJ	A	amod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
artigiana	artigiano	ADJ	A	amod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definita	definire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1985	1985	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
443	443	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
230-bis	230-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	NO	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
103.291	103.291	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
familiare	familiare	ADJ	A	amod
artigiana	artigiana	ADJ	S	amod
risulti	risulgere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
montani	montano	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinquemila	cinquemila	NUM	N	nummod
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
situate	situare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
montani	montano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parente	parente	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quaranta	quaranta	NUM	NO	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aventi	avere	VERB	V	nsubj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
proseguano	proseguare	VERB	V	acl
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
imprenditoriale	imprenditoriale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
detta	dire	VERB	V	advcl
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suindicato	suindicato	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

Detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
detraggono	detragge	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	ROOT
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	obl
estero	estero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	flat:name
IMPOSTA	IMPOSTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLE	ALLE	DET	E_RD	case
SUCCESSIONI	SUCCESSIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LIQUIDAZIONE	LIQUIDAZIONE	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
34	34	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
41	41	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cop
incompleta	incompleta	ADV	A	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infedele	infedele	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
omessa	omesso	VERB	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
omessa	omettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riliquidazione	riliquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazioni	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
errori	errore	NOUN	S	advcl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
omissioni	omissione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidare	liquidare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
correzione	correzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
principale	principale	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	V	cop
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
37	37	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spedita	spedire	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
trustee	trustee	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trust	trust	PROPN	SP	nmod
testamentario	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
immessi	immesso	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
temporaneo	temporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assente	assente	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
amministratori	amministratore	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
curatori	curatore	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
giacenti	giacente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
esecutori	esecutore	NOUN	S	ROOT
testamentari	testamentare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
redatta	redatta	VERB	V	ROOT
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
modello	modello	NOUN	S	obl
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligati	obbligato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
negoziale	negoziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
omessa	ome	ADJ	A	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl:agent
solo	solo	ADJ	A	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
rinunziato	rinunziare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
essendo	essere	AUX	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditari	ereditare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
chiesto	chiedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
528	528	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
informato	informare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegando	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinunzia	rinunzia	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cancelliere	cancelliere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tribunale	tribunale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
sopravviene	sopravvenire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazione	erogazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dà	dare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
devoluzione	devoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
evento	evento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spettanti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessati	interessare	VERB	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamati	chiamata	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluta	devoluta	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
quota	quota	NOUN	S	obl
ereditaria	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
chiamato	chiamato	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
riversa	riversare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
erogato	erogare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
devoluta	devoluta	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
centomila	centomilo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comprende	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sopravvenienze	sopravvenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditarie	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
vengano	venire	AUX	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nulla	nulla	PRON	PI	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
omessa	omessa	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
grado	grado	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accettazioni	accettazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinunzie	rinunzia	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	conj
analitica	analitico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
riscosse	riscosse	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
assunzioni	assunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
debiti	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
presunte	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	conj
contestati	contestare	VERB	V	acl
giudizialmente	giudizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitori	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	NO	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
passività	passività	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

l	l	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	ROOT
eletto	eleggere	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
italiano	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	NOUN	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	appos
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
asse	assa	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditario	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n	n	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

n	n	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecarie	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	i	X	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n	n	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
n	n	X	X	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	flat:foreign
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
l	l	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
domicilio	domicilio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
allegati	allegato	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eliminare	eliminare	VERB	V	advcl
progressivamente	progressivamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	conj
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
arrotondamento	arrotondamento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
difetto	difetto	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
centesimi	centesimo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
eccesso	eccesso	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Allegati	Allegati	PROPN	V	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarativa	dichiarativo	ADJ	V	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
affinità	affinità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parentela	parentela	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	ROOT
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolata	regolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
lesi	leso	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	ROOT
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inventario	inventario	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
l	L	X	X	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblicazioni	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
inventari	inventare	NOUN	S	nmod
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ottemperanza	ottemperanza	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	NO	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	il	DET	RD	det
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecari	ipotecare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
quietanze	quietanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservate	conservare	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
sino	sino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
un	uno	DET	RI	det
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegati	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
certificati	certificato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
famiglia	famiglia	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituiti	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	ADJ	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sostituiti	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notorietà	notorietà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestante	attestante	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ccomp
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
originali	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
originale	originale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	conj
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
allegati	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
redatti	redatto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
straniera	straniero	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
richieste	richiesto	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invitandolo	invitandolo	NOUN	S	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
integrarla	integrare lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
assegni	assegno	NOUN	S	obj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciati	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Termine	termine	NOUN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
legali	legale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
curatori	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
giacenti	giacente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esecutori	esecutore	NOUN	S	conj
testamentari	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
trustee	trustee	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
;)	;)	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	V	cop
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	conj
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
eseguibile	eseguibile	ADJ	A	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiarativa	dichiarativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rinunzia	rinunzia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
evento	evento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
averne	avere ne	AUX	V_PC	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sopravvenienze	sopravvenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
29	29	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
30	30	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
diverso	diverso	ADJ	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pervenuta	pervenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------	-----------	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Irregolarità	Irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incompletezza	incompletezza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
infedeltà	infedeltà	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
manca	mancare	VERB	V	advcl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nbis	nbis	PRON	PI	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	parataxis
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
notifica	notifico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
regolarizzata	regolarizzare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
omessa	omessa	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
incompleta	incompleta	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
infedele	infedelo	ADJ	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	obl
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
verità	verità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
passività	passività	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
41	41	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Liquidazione	Liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
autoliquidano	autoliquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
integrative	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificative	modificativo	ADJ	A	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
erogati	erogare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecari	ipotecare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
automatizzate	automatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
controlla	controllare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
rispondenza	rispondenza	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedendo	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
presentate	presentato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
correggere	correggere	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
errori	errore	NOUN	S	obj
materiali	materiale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
escludere	escludere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
passività	passività	NOUN	S	obj
esposte	esporre	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
deducibilità	deducibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
24	24	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
passività	passività	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
esposti	esporre	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obl
prodotti	prodotto	VERB	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
notifica	notifico	ADJ	A	amod
apposito	apposire	VERB	V	acl
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
correzioni	correzione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
esclusioni	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
effettuate	effettuare	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
integrazione	integrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
versata	versato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
471	471	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
indicato	indicato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riliquidazione	riliquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	DET	RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/86	880/86	NUM	N	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
70/88	70/88	NUM	N	flat:foreign
conv	conv	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
154/88	154/88	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ritiene	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	CCONJ	CC	cop
incompleta	incompleta	ADV	A	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infedele	infedelo	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
4,50	4,50	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	nmod
compiuto	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarati	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dichiarate	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarate	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
seguiti	seguire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	conj
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
specificazione	specificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
contraria	contrario	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	produrre	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarante	dichiarante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
applicate	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
contenute	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiama	richiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salvo	salvo	ADV	A	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riproduca	riproducere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avendo	avere	VERB	V	advcl
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
divisioni	divisione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
perizie	perizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziarie	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
analoghe	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
suscettibili	suscettibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capitalizzato	capitalizzare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detta	detta	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
località	località	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
investimenti	investimento	NOUN	S	nmod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elemento	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
fornite	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quote	quota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accessi	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
settantacinque	settantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dominicale	dominicale	ADJ	A	amod
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	conj
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aggiornati	aggiornare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
coefficienti	coefficiente	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuda	nuda	NOUN	S	nmod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	A	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
urbanistici	urbanistice	ADJ	A	amod
prevedono	prevedere	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obj
edificatoria	edificatorio	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	obl
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	obl
edilizio	edilizio	ADJ	A	amod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

a	a	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvalersene	avvalersene	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
manifestata	manifestare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
voltura	voltura	NOUN	S	nmod
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inviata	inviare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	xcomp
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
recante	recare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricato	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
ricevuta	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
duplice	duplice	NOUN	S	obl
esemplare	esemplare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

c	c	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricevuta	ricevuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
perentorio	perentorio	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
restituisce	restituire	VERB	V	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
esemplare	esemplare	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
urbane	urbane	VERB	V	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-quinquies	1-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
1-septies	1-septies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	compound
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
proposta	proporre	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
volontà	volontà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvalersene	avvalersene	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
espressamente	espressamente	ADV	B	advmod
manifestata	manifestare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invia	inviare	VERB	V	acl
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	nmod
attestante	attestante	ADV	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
catasto	catasto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricato	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	conj
attribuita	attribuito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
era	essere	AUX	VA	aux
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	conj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rendita	rendita	NOUN	S	obj
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
aggiornata	aggiornato	ADJ	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nuda	nuda	NOUN	S	nmod
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
godimento	godimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coefficienti	coefficiente	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	amod
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
ministeriali	ministeriale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
moltiplicatori	moltiplicatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settantacinque	settantacinque	NUM	N	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cento	cento	NUM	N	conj
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operano	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	amod
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposte	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
evidente	evidente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
scarsa	scarso	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanza	rilevanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------------	--------------------	DET	RI	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	appos
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
raccolti	raccogliere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
venuti	venere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
desunti	desunto	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	acl
omesse	omettere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
32	32	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
liquidati	liquidare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
omessa	omesso	ADJ	A	amod
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
seguiti	seguire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinarli	determinare li	VERB	V_PC	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
34	34	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
applicate	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ragioni	ragione	NOUN	S	conj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
motivazione	motivazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
fa	fare	VERB	V	advcl
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conosciuto	conoscere	VERB	V	acl
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
allegato	allegare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
richiama	richiamare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salvo	salvo	ADV	A	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riproduca	riproducere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obj
essenziale	essenziale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nullo	nullo	ADJ	A	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrate	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
25	25	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riliquidazione	riliquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Soggetti	Soggetti	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
coerede	coerede	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	obj
col	con il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditaria	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accettata	accettare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
chiamati	chiamata	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
accettato	accettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditari	ereditare	ADJ	A	amod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	N	punct

L	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
481	481	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
nomina	nomina	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
curatore	curatore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nmod
giacente	giacente	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
528	528	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	obl
legati	legato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
responsabilità	responsabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
solidale	solidale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
82	82	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
117	117	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

41	41	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42	42	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	compound
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
121/1986	121/1986	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
602/1973	602/1973	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
35	35	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguito	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27a	27a	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
autoliquidazione	autoliquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27a	27a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
15/06/2009	15/06/2009	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
37	37	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
compiuto	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Dilazione	dilazione	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimanente	rimanente	NOUN	S	amod
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
rate	rato	NOUN	S	nmod
trimestrali	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	conj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20.000	20.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
massimo	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
rate	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
trimestrali	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornendo	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
apposita	apposito	DET	DI	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
dilazione	dilazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sugli	Sugli	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dilazionati	dilazionato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolati	calcolare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
venti	venti	NUM	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
rate	rata	NOUN	S	nsubj
trimestrali	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dilazionato	dilazionare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
scadono	scadere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
autoliquidata	autoliquidare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rate	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	parataxis
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rateazione	rateazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
dovuto	dovere	VERB	VM	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dedotto	dedotto	VERB	V	acl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
versato	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
iscritto	iscritto	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusa	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lieve	lieve	ADJ	A	amod
inadempimento	inadempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
insufficiente	insufficiente	ADJ	A	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
frazione	frazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
diecimila	diecimila	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tardivo	tardivo	ADJ	A	ROOT
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15-ter	15-ter	NUM	N	compound
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
602	602	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42-bis	42-bis	PROPN	SP	dep
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
proporre	proporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecaria	ipotecaria	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
vincolati	vincolate	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vincolati	vincolate	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
viventi	vivente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinquanta	cinquanta	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
descrizione	descrizione	NOUN	S	obj
dettagliata	dettagliato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
offerti	offrire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
corredata	corredare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoscritta	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
competente	competente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
interrompe	interrompe	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
singolo	singolo	NOUN	S	obl
bene	bene	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
opere	opera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interesse	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
acquisirli	acquisire li	VERB	V_PC	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nominata	nominare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presieduta	presiedutare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
composta	comporre	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	Ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
proponente	proponente	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
chiedere	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	ccomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl
personalmente	personalmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
delegato	delegato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
MAGGIO	MAGGIO	NOUN	S	nmod
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
127	127	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiedente	richiedente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
proponente	proponente	NOUN	S	nmod
notifica	notifico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
firma	firma	NOUN	S	nmod
autenticata	autenticato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trascrizione	trascrizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accettazione	accettazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
autentiche	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
recante	recare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ceduti	ceduto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
cedente	cedere	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ceduti	ceduto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accessori	accessorio	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
acquisire	acquisire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
bene	bene	NOUN	S	obj
offerto	offrire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Della	Di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambientali	ambientale	ADJ	A	conj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
immediata	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
proponente	proponente	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pendenza	pendenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sospende	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
principale	principale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pagata	pagato	VERB	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversia	controversia	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
complementare	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
propone	proporre	VERB	V	advcl
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
terzi	terzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
resto	resto	NOUN	S	nmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
intendente	intendente	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
sospendere	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado.(3	grado.(3	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisioni	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
liquidata	liquidare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corte	corte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	NUM	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------------	---------------------	PROPN	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

41	41	NUM	N	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	conj
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	compound
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	VA	ROOT
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl:agent
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
estingue	estinguere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
dilazione	dilazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
prescrive	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Legge	Legge	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
121/1986	121/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soprattasse	soprattasso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
pagati	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
indebitamente	indebitamente	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
risultante	risultare	VERB	A	conj
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
passata	passare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
anteriore	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
evizione	evizione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rivendicazione	rivendicazione	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
nullità	nullità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annullamento	annullamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risoluzione	risoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rescissione	rescissione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocazione	revocazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
conseguenza	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	conj
presunta	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
scomparso	scomparso	VERB	V	advcl
fa	fa	VERB	V	advmod
ritorno	ritorno	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accettare	accettare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ente	ente	NOUN	S	nsubj
ottiene	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
tardivamente	tardivamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	conj
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sopravvenuto	sopravvenuto	VERB	V	acl
mutamento	mutamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
devoluzione	devoluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ereditaria	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	ROOT
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spettanza	spettanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	conj
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
defunto	defunto	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
posteriore	posteriorere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
rilasciarne	rilasciare ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
ricevuta	ricevere	ADJ	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spedita	spedire	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
plico	plico	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandato	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
busta	busta	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27a	27a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivi	comprensivo	NOUN	S	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsati	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27a	27a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
15/06/2009	15/06/2009	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
37	37	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
347	347	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
compiuto	compiuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
testamentarie	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
impugnate	impugnato	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modificate	modificare	VERB	V	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	obl
testamentarie	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenute	contenere	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
impugnate	impugnare	VERB	V	advcl
giudizialmente	giudizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
reintegrare	reintegrare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legittimari	legittimare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
scrittura	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticata	autenticato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impugnazione	impugnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
sopravvenuti	sopravvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

29	29	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
30	30	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
testamentarie	testamentario	ADJ	S	amod
condizionali	condizionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
risolutiva	risolutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
franchigia	franchigia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
istituito	istituito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
avveramento	avveramento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
franchigia	franchigia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
subentrante	subentrante	ADV	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
sospensiva	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
franchigia	franchigia	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
proprie	proprio	DET	AP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
successibili	successibile	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obj
istituito	istituito	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
soggetto	soggetto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
minore	minore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eredità	eredità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluta	devolere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avveramento	avveramento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
avveramento	avveramento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
sospensiva	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fosse	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avveramento	avveramento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
legato	legato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
risolutiva	risolutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
avveramento	avveramento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
testamentarie	testamentario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascituri	nascituro	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
sottoposte	sottoposta	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
sospensiva	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fedecommissaria	fedecommissario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
692	692	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituito	istituito	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
usufrutto	usufrutto	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
formano	formare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
fedecommissaria	fedecommissario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituito	istituito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sostituito	sostituito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	parataxis
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituito	istituito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
piena	pieno	ADJ	A	amod
proprieta	proprieta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detraendo	detraere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
precedentemente	precedentemente	ADV	B	advmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Presunzione	presunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
legato	legare	NOUN	S	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
determinati	determinato	DET	DI	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
intestati	intestare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
posseduti	possedere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presumono	presumere	VERB	V	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	obl
appartengono	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
legato	legare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrato	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
appartenevano	appartenere	VERB	V	ccomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
testamento	testamento	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
legato	legato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
individualmente	individualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
legato	legare	VERB	V	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DELL'	DELL'	PROPN	SP	flat:name
IMPOSTA	IMPOSTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLE	ALLE	DET	E_RD	case
SUCCESSIONI	SUCCESSIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CAPO	CAPO	PROPN	SP	nmod
VII	VII	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	PROPN	S	nmod
VARIE	VARIE	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	B	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicandone	indicandone	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
inviare	inviare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
questionari	questionario	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
invito	invito	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
restituirli	restituire li	VERB	V_PC	acl
compilati	compilare	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
firmati	firmare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presunzioni	presunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precise	preciso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concordanti	concordante	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
simulazione	simulazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
costitutivi	costitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
rilevante	rilevante	ADJ	A	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	ADP	E	nmod
-	-	NOUN	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

dimostrare	dimostrare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presunzioni	presunzione	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
precise	preciso	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
concordanti	concordante	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insussistenza	insussistenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
simulazione	simulazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dissimulazione	dissimulazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
organismi	organismo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
controllano	controllare	VERB	V	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esattezza	esattezza	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
certificazioni	certificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Divieti	divieti	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
territoriali	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
compiere	compiere	VERB	V	ROOT
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervenuto	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
era	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
giudici	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
arbitri	arbitro	NOUN	S	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
apprese	apprendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debitori	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
detentori	detentore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gli	lo	PRON	PC	iobj
appartenevano	appartenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obj
detenuti	detenuto	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
eredi	erede	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legatari	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	NOUN	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervenuto	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
era	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
debitori	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
defunto	defunto	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
raccomandata	raccomandare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
banche	banca	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
intermediari	intermediario	NOUN	S	conj
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
emettono	emettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
obbligazioni	obbligazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cartelle	cartella	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certificati	certificare	NOUN	V	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
specie	specie	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
provvisori	provvisorio	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
annotazione	annotazione	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	nmod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrativa	integrativo	NOUN	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervenuto	intervenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
era	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
immobili	immobile	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
asse	asse	NOUN	S	obl
ereditario	ereditario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
catastali	catastale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ipotecarie	ipotecaria	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
cadute	cadere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
a	a	ADP	E	mark
richiederlo	richiedere lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
erede	erede	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
età	età	NOUN	S	nmod
anagrafica	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ventisei	ventisei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
inesistenza	inesistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmesse	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cassette	cassetta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aperte	aprire	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	S	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
apposto	apporre	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
firma	firma	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
concedenti	concedere	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
cronologica	cronologico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
fogli	foglio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spazi	spazio	NOUN	S	conj
bianchi	bianco	ADJ	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
iscritto	iscritto	NOUN	S	obl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aprirle	aprire le	VERB	V_PC	acl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
tuttora	tuttora	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cassette	cassetta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
morte	morte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionario	concessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessionari	concessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aperte	aprire	VERB	A	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
funzionario	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
notaio	notaio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
redige	redigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concedente	concedere	VERB	V	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
redatto	redatto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ora	ora	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apertura	apertura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
armadi	armadio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
casseforti	cassefore ti	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
borse	borsa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valige	valigia	NOUN	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
plichi	plico	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pacchi	pacco	ADJ	A	conj
chiusi	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	appos
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Notificazioni	Notificazioni	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificati	notificare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
messi	messo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
messi	messo	NOUN	S	obl
comunali	comunale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
conciliazione	conciliazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

50	50	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
53	53	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
omette	ometto	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successione	successione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sostitutiva	sostitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
integrativa	integrativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
centoventi	centoventi	NOUN	A	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
liquidata	liquidare	ADJ	A	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riliquidata	riliquidare	VERB	V	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
liquidata	liquidare	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riliquidata	riliquidare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15)(29)(32)(34	15)(29)(32)(34	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
880/1986	880/1986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Infedeltà	Infedeltà	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
omette	omere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
riliquidazione	riliquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
dll'	d il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
li	li	PRON	PC	obj
indica	indicare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
maniera	maniera	NOUN	S	obl
infedele	infedelo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
espone	espone	NOUN	S	conj
passività	passività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
inesistenti	inesistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottanta	ottanta	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondente	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoscrive	sottoscrivo	ADJ	A	conj
attestazioni	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
deducibili	deducibile	ADJ	A	amod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rispondenti	rispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vero	vero	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj
accertato	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarato	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infedeltà	infedeltà	NOUN	S	conj
attengono	attengere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
incidenti	incidente	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
determazione	determazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
1000	1000	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
allegazione	allegazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazoni	dichiarazone	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	conj
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecaria	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
catastale	catastale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
bollo	bollo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasse	tassa	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ipotecari	ipotecario	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
inesattezza	inesattezza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prospetti	prospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarizzazione	regolarizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
512/1982	512/1982	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
erede	erede	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
legatario	legatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
devoluti	devolere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottanta	ottanta	NUM	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inclusione	inclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
attivo	attivo	ADJ	A	amod
ereditario	ereditario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chi	chi	PRON	PR	nsubj
viola	violare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	obj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
da	da	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sazione	sazione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ottanta	ottanta	NUM	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
percento	percento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
concedenti	concedere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositari	depositaro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pari	pari	NOUN	A	obl
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ottempera	ottempero	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
incompleti	incompleto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infedeli	infedelo	NOUN	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possedere	possedere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottrae	sottrae	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ispezione	ispezione	NOUN	S	obl
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
obbligatori	obbligatore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
certezza	certezza	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rifiuta	rifiutare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottoscrivere	sottoscrivere	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consegnare	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligati	obbligato	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
passività	passività	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
permette	permettere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	ccomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
autentica	autentico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
autentiche	autentica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
raddoppiata	raddoppiare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
divieti	divieto	ADJ	A	conj
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
banche	banca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
intermediazione	intermediazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ente	Ente	PROPN	SP	conj
poste	porre	VERB	V	acl
italiane	italiano	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
54	54	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sazione	sazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
amministrativa	amministrativa	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
commisutata	commisutare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
questa	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunta	assungere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
detrazioni	detrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26	26	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
registrare	registrare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fisso	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
fisso	fisso	ADV	B	advmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dirette	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trust	Trust	PROPN	S	nmod
formati	formare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
residenti	residente	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrati	registrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
disposto	disposto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
trust	trust	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gravato	gravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatta	fare	VERB	V	conj
congiuntamente	congiunto	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	conj
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coniuge	coniuge	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retta	NOUN	A	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
eccedente	eccedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1.000.000	1.000.000	NUM	N	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fratelli	fratello	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sorelle	sorella	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
netto	netto	ADJ	A	amod
eccedente	eccedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

6	6	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
parenti	parente	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
retta	retto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affini	affino	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
collaterale	collaterale	ADJ	A	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

6	6	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
una	uno	DET	RI	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
disabilità	disabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quota	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legato	legato	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
supera	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
1.500.000	1.500.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
donati	donato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
riduzioni	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	cop
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
detratta	detrattare	ADJ	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattura	fattura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiungere	ADJ	A	amod
afferente	afferere	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
detraggono	detragge	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pagate	pagare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	det
concorrenza	concorrenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattati	trattato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56-bis	56-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nmod
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
742	742	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
770	770	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
783	783	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenti	residente	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esistenza	esistenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
risulti	risulgere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
rese	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
diretti	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Alle	Alle	ADP	E_RD	case
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
franchigia	franchigia	NOUN	S	obj
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
prevista	previsto	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	ROOT
volontariamente	volontariamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
franchigie	franchigia	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
56	56	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------------	-------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	appos
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Donazioni	donazioni	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
spettanti	spettante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
donatario	donatario	ADJ	A	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
maggiorato	maggiorare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
franchigie	franchigia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donante	donare	VERB	V	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
presunte	presunto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	conj
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	acl
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
59	59	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriori	anteriore	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
attuale	attuale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
donati	donato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
anteriori	anteriore	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
anteriormente	anteriormente	ADV	B	advmod
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donante	donare	VERB	V	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
donatario	donatario	ADJ	A	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcuno	alcuno	PRON	PI	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donatari	donatario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
valori	valore	NOUN	S	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incompletezza	incompletezza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inesattezza	inesattezza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donanti	donante	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
donatari	donatario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	N	det:predet
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	appos
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
varie	vario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
gravata	gravare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
prestazioni	prestazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
individualmente	individualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nascituri	nascituro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
favore	favore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
h	h	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
sottoposte	sottoposta	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
sospensiva	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
692	692	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
spetta	spettare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
liberalità	liberalità	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
vivi	vivo	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	appos
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
culturali	culturale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoposti	sottoposto	NOUN	S	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bene	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
esente	esente	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	ADJ	NO	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aricolo	aricolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

COMMA	COMMA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name

DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	ROOT
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

15	15	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
1997	1997	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	appos
446	446	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
con	con	ADP	E	fixed
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
beni	bene	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
donazione	donazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59-bis	59-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esenzione	Esenzione	PROPN	SP	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
automobilistico	automobilistico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
59	59	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
l	l	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
637/1972	637/1972	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Rinvio	Rinvio	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
56-bis	56-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
57	57	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
rettifica	rettifica	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
omissione	omissione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
divieti	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
131	131	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62	62	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Agevolazioni	Agevolazioni	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferne	fere ne	VERB	V_PC	csubj
le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Entrata	Entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
entra	entrare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
1	1	NUM	N	obl
'	'	PUNCT	S	punct
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	obl
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
donazioni	donazione	NOUN	S	conj
fatte	fare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Visto	vedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ANDREOTTI	ANDREOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TARIFFA	TARIFFA	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	appos
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
coefficienti	coefficiente	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Età	Età	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
Coefficienti	Coefficienti	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
0	0	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
38	38	NUM	N	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
36	36	NUM	N	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
40	40	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
34	34	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
41	41	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
45	45	NUM	N	det
				SPACE	_SP	dep
32	32	NUM	N	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
30	30	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
51	51	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
53	53	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
28	28	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
54	54	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
26	26	NUM	N	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
57	57	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
24	24	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
61	61	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
63	63	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
22	22	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
20	20	NUM	N	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
18	18	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
16	16	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
75	75	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
82	82	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
86	86	NUM	N	nmod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
92	92	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
93	93	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
				SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

18	18	NUM	N	nummod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
139	139	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
formati	formato	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziari	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
pubblicati	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
emanati	emanare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
autenticate	autenticare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
successioni	successione	NOUN	S	conj
aperte	aperto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
gratuito	gratuito	ADJ	A	amod
fatti	fare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep