Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unito	unito	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vistato	vistare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proponenti	proponente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
SCALFARO	SCALFARO	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ad	a	ADP	E	case
interim	interim	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
FANTOZZI	FANTOZZI	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
MASERA	MASERA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CLÒ	CLÒ	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj
Visto	Visto	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
01	01	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
unito	unito	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vistato	vistare	VERB	V	conj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proponenti	proponente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigillo	sigillo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inserito	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nmod
spetti	spettare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
osservarlo	osservare lo	VERB	V_PC	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
farlo	fare lo	VERB	V_PC	conj
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Dato	Dato	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Roma	Roma	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addì	addì	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
SCALFARO	SCALFARO	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tesoro	tesoro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ad	a	ADP	E	case
interim	interim	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
grazia	grazia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
FANTOZZI	FANTOZZI	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
MASERA	MASERA	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programmazione	programmazione	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
CLÒ	CLÒ	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
industria	industria	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
artigianato	artigianato	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Guardasigilli	Guardasigilli	PROPN	SP	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	nmod
I	I	DET	RD	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISCIPLINA	DISCIPLINA	PROPN	S	ROOT
DELLE	DELLE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ACCISE	ACCISE	PROPN	SP	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	i	ADJ	RD	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
GENERALI	GENERALI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	appos
applicativo	applicativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
definizioni	definizione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
disciplina	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obj
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	conj
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	PRON	PI	appos
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imposizioni	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
organi	organo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
periferici	periferico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
preposti	preposto	NOUN	S	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	conj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcoli	alcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assoggettato	assoggettare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nsubj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assolto	assolvere	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
deposito	deposire	VERB	V	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengono	venire	VERB	VA	acl:relcl
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformati	trasformare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricevuti	ricevuto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	ROOT
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f.1	f.1	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditare	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	obl
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
opera	operare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
accreditato	accreditare	VERB	V	ROOT
assume	assumere	VERB	V	ccomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
SOAC-PE	SOAC-PE	PROPN	V	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	det:predet
accreditato	accreditato	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
inclusi	includere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
carbone	carbone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
lignite	lignite	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
coke	Coke	PROPN	SP	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
SOAC-BA	SOAC-BA	ADP	N	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditare	VERB	V	conj
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	obj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcole	alcole	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
SOAC-T	SOAC-T	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditato	VERB	V	conj
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
SOAC-GE	SOAC-GE	NOUN	V	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
accreditato	accreditare	VERB	V	advcl
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	conj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
regime	regime	NOUN	S	ROOT
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	ROOT
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigibilità	esigibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
estintiva	estintivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CDU	CDU	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	i	DET	RD	det
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	ROOT
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CDU	CDU	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
fossero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
dazi	dazio	NOUN	S	obl
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
l	L	X	X	det
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	ROOT
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	ROOT
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
unicamente	unico	ADV	B	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
spedire	spedire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CDU	CDU	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	ROOT
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
spedire	spedire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
m	m	X	X	compound
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
ter	ter	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	ROOT
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
persona	persona	NOUN	S	ROOT
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comune	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Livigno	Livigno	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	ROOT
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
esclusioni	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	ROOT
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	ROOT
francesi	francese	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
349	349	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
355	355	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
federale	federale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Germania	Germania	PROPN	SP	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
isola	isola	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
Helgoland	Helgoland	PROPN	SP	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Busingen	Busingen	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Spagna	Spagna	PROPN	SP	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

Ceuta	Ceuta	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Melilla	Melilla	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
isole	isola	NOUN	S	conj
Canarie	Canarie	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Finlandia	Finlandia	PROPN	SP	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
isole	isola	NOUN	S	nsubj
Åland	Åland	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
isole	isola	NOUN	S	nsubj
Anglo	Anglo	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
normanne	normanne	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Principato	Principato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Monaco	Monaco	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
francese	francese	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
Jungholz	Jungholz	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Mittelberg	Mittelberg	PROPN	SP	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Kleines	Kleines	PROPN	SP	nmod
Walsertal	Walsertal	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
federale	federale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Germania	Germania	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
isola	isola	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Man	Man	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	obl
Unito	Unito	PROPN	SP	flat:name
di	di	ADP	E	case
Gran	Gran	PROPN	SP	nmod
Bretagna	Bretagna	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Irlanda	Irlanda	PROPN	SP	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nord	Nord	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
San	San	PROPN	SP	nmod
Marino	Marino	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
perfezionate	perfezionare	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
italiani	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
amicizia	amicizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
buon	buono	ADJ	A	amod
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1939	1939	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1939	1939	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1320	1320	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Regno	Regno	PROPN	SP	nmod
Unito	Unito	PROPN	SP	flat:name
di	di	ADP	E	case
Akrotiri	Akrotiri	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Dhekelia	Dhekelia	PROPN	SP	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	case
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cipro	Cipro	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
generatore	generatore	NOUN	S	compound
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esigibilità	esigibilità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
sorge	sorgere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottosuolo	sottosuolo	NOUN	S	obl
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	conj
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl:agent
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammanco	ammanco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
irregolari	irregolare	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	PD	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	conj
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estinta	estinta	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
k	k	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CDU	CDU	PROPN	SP	conj
;)	;)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	ccomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
poter	potere	AUX	VM	aux
beneficiare	beneficiare	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
garanti	garanto	NOUN	S	xcomp
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigibilità	esigibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
riceve	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	appos
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
garantito	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigibilità	esigibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;)	;)	PUNCT	FC	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	conj
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
commi	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/93	331/93	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.C.P.S.	D.L.C.P.S.	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	compound
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1947	1947	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1285	1285	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1964	1964	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
989	989	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1964	1964	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1350	1350	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod

D.P.R.	D.P.Rumero	VERB	V	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3-quinquies	3-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
251	251	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1974	1974	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
346	346	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capitoli	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	obl
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolte	risogliere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
controversie	controversia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
risolte	risogliere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-decies	39-decies	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ammanchi	ammanco	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	obl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenute	avvenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenute	avvenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
unitario	unitario	NOUN	S	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
questi	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimi	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
ampi	ampio	ADJ	A	amod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ritardo	ritardo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riducibile	riducibile	ADJ	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tasso	tasso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dilazionato	dilazionare	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
estinzione	estinzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
importate	importato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovi	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
documentate	documentato	NOUN	S	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscontrabili	riscontrabile	ADJ	A	conj
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
temporanee	temporaneo	ADJ	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
difficoltà	difficoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	amod
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Permanendo	Permanendo	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentate	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	DET	DI	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
scadenze	scadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	NOUN	S	obl
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
diniego	diniego	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizza	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rate	rata	NOUN	S	obl
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
modulato	modulare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
completo	completo	NOUN	S	nmod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1284	1284	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maggiorata	maggiorato	VERB	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
rata	rata	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
fissata	fissato	ADJ	A	amod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rateizzazione	rateizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
integrale	integrale	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
residui	residuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
ritardato	ritardato	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trova	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
verifichino	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
errori	errore	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
limitata	limitata	NOUN	S	nmod
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
MAGGIO	MAGGIO	NOUN	S	nmod
2020	2020	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
4	4	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Abbuoni	Abbuoni	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cali	calo	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
irrimediabile	irrimediabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	impostare	VERB	V	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	dep
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
provi	Provi	VERB	V_B	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	advcl
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
irrimediabile	irrimediabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imputabili	imputabile	ADP	S	advcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinanti	determinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabili	imputabili	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
imputabili	imputabili	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligato	obbligato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
inerente	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
sorta	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cali	calo	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cali	calo	NOUN	S	obl
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifichi	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
fondati	fondato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sospettare	sospettare	VERB	V	acl
frodi	frodo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
individuata	individuare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2020/262	2020/262	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	advcl
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
subito	subire	ADV	B	ccomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	obj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
una	uno	DET	RI	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
irrimediabile	irrimediabile	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
inutilizzabile	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
5	5	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regime	regime	NOUN	S	appos
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regime	regime	NOUN	S	compound
le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
tassati	tassare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
forfettaria	forfettario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa.(87	accisa.(87	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fatte	fare	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	xcomp
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
grava	grare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
aritmetica	aritmetico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
avvenute	avvenere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
adegua	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	dep
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riduce	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerate	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conformarsi	conformare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	xcomp
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
detenuti	detenuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
movimentati	movimentare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	xcomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottoporsi	sottopore si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	dep
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
movimentano	movimentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	conj
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circuito	circuito	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatività	operatività	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obj
occorrenti	occorrere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
arredamento	arredamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sostenere	sostenere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
corrispettivi	corrispettivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
svolta	svolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
orario	orario	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	ROOT
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	appos
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
transitino	transitino	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvenire	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
lasciano	lasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dopo	dopo	SCONJ	CS	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svincolati	svincolare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	obl
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
CDU	CDU	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inizia	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
lasciano	lasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
libera	libero	ADJ	A	amod
pratica	pratica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
mittente	mittente	NOUN	B	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
spediti	spedito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vettore	vettore	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
mittente	mittente	NOUN	B	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
intraunionali	intraunionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
data	dare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esportati	esportare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12	12	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
concedere	concedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositari	depositario	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
affidabili	affidabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
notoria	notorio	ADJ	A	amod
solvibilità	solvibilità	NOUN	S	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
intraunionali	intraunionale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
marittima	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62-quater.1	62-quater.1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
62-quater.2	62-quater.2	NUM	N	nummod
sottoposti	sottoposto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62-quater	62-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
62-quater.1	62-quater.1	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
62-quater.2	62-quater.2	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
estesa	estendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzioni	cauzione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giacenza	giacenza	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
condutture	conduttura	NOUN	S	nmod
fisse	fire	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	PROPN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
richieda	richieda	NOUN	S	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
debitamente	debitamente	ADV	B	advmod
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinto	quinto	ADJ	NO	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	conj
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
referenze	referenza	NOUN	S	nmod
bancarie	bancario	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiedenti	richiedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
storica	storico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prospettica	prospettico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comparativa	comparativo	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rischio	rischio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
684/2009	684/2009	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nmod
stampata	stampare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
chiaramente	chiaramente	ADV	B	advmod
identificabile	identificabile	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esibito	esibire	VERB	V	ROOT
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
divergenza	divergenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fanno	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
fede	fede	NOUN	S	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	NO	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
12	12	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	NOUN	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
attestata	attestato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
validata	validata	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
nota	noto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
automezzi	automezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
scaricati	scaricato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esportati	esportare	VERB	V	xcomp
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
compila	compilare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
lasciato	lasciare	VERB	V	ccomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ricevute	ricevuta	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
diverso	diverso	ADJ	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
compila	compilare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vincolati	vincolare	VERB	V	ccomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno	esterno	VERB	A	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ricevute	ricevuta	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
vincolato	vincolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
diverso	diverso	ADJ	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
indisponibile	indisponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nsubj
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
684/2009	684/2009	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservata	conservare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
riportarne	riportare ne	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
contabilità.(87	contabilità.(87	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
indisponibile	indisponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestante	attestante	ADV	B	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	SCONJ	CS	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo.(87	periodo.(87	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
indisponibile	indisponibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
risulti	risulto	NOUN	S	advcl
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9.(87	9.(87	NUM	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
causata	causare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
spedite	spedire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
ricevute	ricevuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advmod
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	B	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
causata	causare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
visto	visto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
situato	situare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevute	ricevere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
situato	situare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svincolati	svincolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vincolati	vincolare	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
transito	transito	NOUN	S	nmod
esterno.(87	esterno.(87	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
avviati	avviare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
domanda	domanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
assolta	assolto	VERB	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
osservano	osservare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentito	sentire	VERB	V	parataxis
il	il	DET	RD	det
Comando	comando	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aggiuntive	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
identificazione	identificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esatta	esatto	ADJ	A	amod
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trovano	trovare	VERB	A	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67.(87	67.(87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15-bis	15-bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
autobotti	autobotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bettoline	bettolina	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munite	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tracciamento	tracciamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posizione	posizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
misurazione	misurazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
scaricate	scaricato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Irregolarità	Irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificatasi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	dep
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
addebitati	addebitato	ADJ	A	amod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
garantito	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	obl
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
presume	presumere	VERB	V	parataxis
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
giungono	giungere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
presume	presumere	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificate	verificare	VERB	V	conj
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	DET	E_RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obj
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nsubj
compete	competere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
calcolati	calcolato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	PD	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	V	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
resi	rendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
garanti	garanto	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
potrebbero	potere	AUX	VM	aux
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esserne	essere ne	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
azioni	azione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
mutua	mutua	NOUN	S	nmod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	compound
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvengono	avvengere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	NOUN	A	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	flat
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
99	99	NUM	N	flat
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Codice	Codice	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
annotato	annotare	VERB	V	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	A	obl
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
telematicamente	telematicamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
delle	di il	DET	E_RD	det
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
codici	codico	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
targa	targa	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rimorchi	rimorco	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
itinerario	itinerario	NOUN	S	dep
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
seguirà	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
lasceranno	lascare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emesso	emettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
annotato	annotare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
scorta	scortire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	ROOT
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
conclusa	concludere	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvenuta	avvenire	ADJ	A	amod
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
invia	invia	ADV	B	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
regolarmente	regolarmente	ADV	B	advmod
conclusa	concludere	VERB	V	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uscita	uscita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitativi	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	conj
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	compound
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezionamento	confezionamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
malfunzionamento	malfunzionamento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
riportare	riportare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
trovano	trovare	VERB	A	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
preparazioni	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	ADJ	A	amod
rientranti	rientrante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3403	3403	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasportate	trasportare	VERB	V	advcl
sfuse	sfuse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Destinatario	Destinatario	PROPN	SP	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valida	valido	ADJ	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
revoca	revoca	NOUN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabilizzati	contabilizzare	VERB	V	conj
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
ricorrano	ricorrere	NOUN	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
occasionalmente	occasionalmente	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valida	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
movimento	movimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
prestabilita	prestabilire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riportante	riportantere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
scortare	scortare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obl
stampata	stampare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fabbricare	fabbricare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformare	trasformare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
detenere	detenere	VERB	V	ccomp
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
spedire	spedire	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Egli	egli	PRON	PE	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	parataxis
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
provvedere	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatto	fare	VERB	V	conj
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
sfuso	sfuso	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
travasati	travasare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riservati	riservare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
riscontrare	riscontrare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
rispettano	rispettare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
etichettatura	etichettatura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-duodecies	39-duodecies	NUM	SP	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposizione	apposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	conj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	nmod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Destinatario	Destinatario	PROPN	SP	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valida	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ricevuti	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contabilizzati	contabilizzare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	xcomp
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
individua	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposire	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
area	area	NOUN	S	obj
separata	separato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distinta	distintare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
locale	locale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
detenere	detenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
assolta	assolto	ADJ	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	PRON	PD	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	NOUN	S	nmod
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
ritenute	ritenuto	ADJ	A	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
valida	valido	ADJ	A	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
100	100	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
occasionalmente	occasionalmente	ADJ	DI	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
ubicato	ubicare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
movimento	movimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
prestabilita	prestabilire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commercializzati	commercializzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
iscritti	iscritto	VERB	A	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettare	rispettare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
etichettatura	etichettatura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
muniti	munire	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-duodecies	39-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	nmod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Speditore	Speditore	PROPN	SP	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	acciso	NOUN	S	obl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
prescinde	prescindere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
spedizionieri	spedizioniero	NOUN	S	obl
abilitati	abilitato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
svolgere	svolgere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-sexies	1-sexies	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
417	417	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
detenere	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	obl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
stampata	stampare	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
indichi	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	PUNCT	S	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizioni	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Speditore	Speditore	PROPN	SP	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valida	valido	ADJ	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
revoca	revoca	NOUN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
avente	avere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contabilizzati	contabilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
approvati	approvare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	xcomp
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Restano	Restano	VERB	V	ROOT
ferme	ferma	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nsubj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
iscrivere	iscrivere	VERB	V	ccomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
indicazione	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativo	relativo	NOUN	S	nmod
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	conj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
intesi	intese	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
regolarità	regolarità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizioni	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
occasionalmente	occasionalmente	ADJ	A	amod
trasportare	trasportare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
occasionale	occasionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
movimento	movimento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
prestabilita	prestabilire	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
istruzioni	istruzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
osservare	osservare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
salute	salute	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	NOUN	A	nmod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	compound
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
fornisca	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimostri	dimostro	NOUN	PI	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ricevuto	ricevere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
versato	versare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soggetto	soggetto	AUX	SP	advcl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuita	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26	26	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
53	53	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
quadriennale	quadriennale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
articolata	articolare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
denominati	denominare	VERB	V	acl
Base	base	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
Medio	Medio	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
Avanzato	Avanzato	PROPN	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	obl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
21	21	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26-bis	26-bis	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
semplificazioni	semplificazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilitazioni	facilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	amod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-octies	9-octies	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Requisiti	Requisiti	PROPN	SP	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
f.1	f.1	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
continuativi	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	obl
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
sentenze	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitive	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolazione	regolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
crisi	crisi	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
insolvenza	insolvenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	V	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
incorsi	incore si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	advmod
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
sanzionatori	sanzionatore	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sussistere	sussistere	VERB	V	parataxis
in	in	ADP	E	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
coloro	coloro	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	obl
2028	2028	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Riconoscimento	riconoscimento	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attribuzione	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
preliminarmente	preliminarmente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nmod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
mancanza	mancanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
rigetta	rigettare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	A	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nsubj
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
valuta	valutare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
professionalità	professionalità	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnica	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esperienze	esperienza	NOUN	S	nmod
pregresse	pregresso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
conduzione	conduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conseguimento	conseguimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualifiche	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
pertinenti	pertinente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
svolta	svolto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazione	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
aziendale	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	nmod
strutturali	strutturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
continuativo	continuativo	ADJ	A	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
struttura	struttura	NOUN	S	conj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
flussi	flusso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prevenzione	prevenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
231	231	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
solvibilità	solvibilità	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indicatori	indicatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
puntuale	puntuale	ADJ	A	amod
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impegni	impegno	NOUN	S	nmod
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tipologia	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
filiera	filiera	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzate	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
cessionari	cessionare	NOUN	S	conj
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
solidità	solidità	NOUN	S	conj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
solvibilità	solvibilità	NOUN	S	conj
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ripetute	ripetere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
frequenza	frequenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dimensioni	dimensione	NOUN	S	nmod
strutturali	strutturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
affari	affare	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestate	contestare	VERB	V	ROOT
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	conj
esamina	esaminare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
ricompreso	ricomprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
riscontri	riscontro	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
esito	esito	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
istante	istante	NOUN	S	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	obj
numerico	numerico	ADJ	A	amod
sintetico	sintetico	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
zero	zero	NUM	N	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
cento	cento	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-octies	9-octies	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuta	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	nsubj
attribuito	attribuito	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	parataxis
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
centoventi	centovente	ADJ	A	amod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigetto	rigetto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nsubj
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	A	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denominazioni	denominazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
f.1	f.1	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attribuendogli	attribuendogli	VERB	V_PC	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punteggi	punteggio	NOUN	S	nmod
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	mark
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verificano	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gestionali	gestionale	ADJ	A	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9-sexies	9-sexies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
usufruire	usufruire	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	conj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accreditato	accreditare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzioni	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
base	base	NOUN	S	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
50	50	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
100	100	NUM	N	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
avanzato	avanzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
riconosce	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-octies	9-octies	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
SOAC-GE	sOAC-GE	PROPN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
avanzato	avanzato	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26-ter	26-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
9-septies	9-septies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Monitoraggio	Monitoraggio	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
revoca	revoco	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
monitora	monitora	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
punteggio	punteggio	NOUN	S	conj
sintetico	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
monitoraggio	monitoraggio	NOUN	S	obl
emergono	emergere	VERB	V	ROOT
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
venir	venire	VERB	V	obj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
attribuito	attribuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
motivato	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
interessato	interessato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revoca	revocare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
rimodulando	rimodulare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	obj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	advcl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
ricorrono	ricorrere	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adeguata	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9-octies	9-octies	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
qualifica	qualifica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	amod
accreditato	accreditato	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9-sexies	9-sexies	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9-septies	9-septies	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parametri	parametro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punteggi	punteggio	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
attribuire	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
profili	profilo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
SOAC	SOAC	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	conj
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specificità	specificità	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
f.1	f.1	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
affidabilità	affidabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attribuito	attribuito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
semplificazioni	semplificazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
facilitazioni	facilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
informatica	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
semplificazioni	semplificazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
facilitazioni	facilitazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
danneggiati	danneggiare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inutilizzabili	inutilizzabile	ADJ	A	conj
;)	;)	PUNCT	S	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodicità	periodicità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventari	inventare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
temporali	temporale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;)	;)	PUNCT	FC	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
continuativa	continuativo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
;)	;)	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dilazione	dilazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
differimento	differimento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
periodiche	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	NOUN	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
allegare	allegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istanze	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
;)	;)	X	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
codici	codico	ADJ	A	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	nmod
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esservi	essere vi	AUX	VA_PC	aux
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricevuti	ricevuto	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
trasportati	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	X	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
aver	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nmod
emesso	emesso	NOUN	S	compound
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
documento	documento	NOUN	S	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
semplificato	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
inizia	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
lasciano	lasciare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
circostanza	circostanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
attestata	attestato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmessa	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
validata	validata	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
nota	noto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	obl
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	obl
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
automezzi	automezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	obl
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
iscrizione	iscrizione	NOUN	S	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
effettuarsi	effettuare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	acl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
scaricati	scaricato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
consegnati	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenuti	detenuto	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
traversate	traversare	NOUN	SP	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
voli	volo	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetto	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
nave	nave	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
indisponibile	indisponibile	ADJ	A	advcl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificare	VERB	A	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	ADJ	S	obj
documento	documento	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
copia	copia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservata	conservare	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
riportano	riportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
indisponibile	indisponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attestante	attestante	ADV	B	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuta	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appena	appena	SCONJ	CS	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nsubj
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
nuovamente	nuovamente	ADV	B	advmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nsubj
certificato	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
trasmette	trasmettere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sostituisce	sostituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
predetto	predetto	ADJ	S	obj
documento	documento	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riserva	riserva	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
causata	causare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advmod
attesta	attestare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comprovante	comprovante	ADJ	B	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	obj
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
spedite	spedire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
causata	causare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
indisponibilità	indisponibilità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
eccezionali	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attestazione	attestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
10-bis	10-bis	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
privato	privare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
esercitando	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agisca	agire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvengono	avvengere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
transfrontaliera	transfrontaliero	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2014/40	2014/40	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
59	59	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	ROOT
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
spedizione	spedizione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
pagare	pagare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
lavorativo	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenere	tenere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
sottoporsi	sottopore si	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
inteso	intendere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
corretto	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
acquisti	acquisto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spedizioni	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all	all	ADP	E_RD	punct
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Dogane	Dogane	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quater	39-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettare	rispettare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
etichettatura	etichettatura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
muniti	munire	VERB	V	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-duodecies	39-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
acquisiti	acquisito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesti	richierre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
privato	privare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	advmod
esercitando	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agisca	agire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indirettamente	indirettamente	ADV	B	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
quest'	quest'	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
fornisca	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dimostri	dimostro	PRON	PI	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avere	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ottemperato	ottemperare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
verificatasi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
addebitati	addebitato	ADJ	A	amod
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corrisposta	corrispondere	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
garantito	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
solido	solido	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
partecipato	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
era	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
avrebbe	avere	AUX	VA	aux
dovuto	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
ragionevolmente	ragionevolmente	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
;)	;)	PUNCT	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essa	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
presume	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	ccomp
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
individuato	individuare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificare	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nsubj
compete	competere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	obl
calcolati	calcolato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
fornisce	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	PD	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avvenuto	avvenuto	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
infrazione	infrazione	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
verificata	verificato	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagata	pagare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
informa	informare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	cop
inizialmente	inizialmente	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
irrimediabile	irrimediabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definite	definire	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvenute	avvenere	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	impostare	VERB	V	nmod
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	dep
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
provi	Provi	VERB	V_B	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	advcl
ritenuto	ritenere	VERB	V	acl
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
irrimediabile	irrimediabile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
imputabili	imputabile	ADP	S	advcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinanti	determinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
imputabili	imputabili	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
imputabili	imputabili	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dolo	dolo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
colpa	colpa	NOUN	S	conj
grave	grave	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligato	obbligato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
equiparati	equiparare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
fortuito	fortuito	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	conj
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifichi	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
fondati	fondato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sospettare	sospettare	VERB	V	acl
frodi	frodo	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
individuate	individuare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2020/262	2020/262	NUM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
comuni	comune	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
continuano	continuare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicarsi	applicare si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dimostri	dimostro	ADJ	PI	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
aver	avere	AUX	VA	aux
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
abbia	avere	VERB	V	advcl
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prestata	prestata	ADJ	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
11	11	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
trasportati	trasportato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
considerarsi	considerare si	VERB	VA_PC	ROOT
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
acquistati	acquistato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	ROOT
spiritose	spiritoso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermede	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vino	vino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
spumante	spumante	ADV	B	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
800	800	NUM	N	nummod
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammo	chilograre	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
acquistate	acquistato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	conj
92/79	92/79	PRON	PE	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
92/79	92/79	PRON	PE	dep
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotto	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
individuati	individuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
vige	vigere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
acquistati	acquistato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
svolta	svolta	NOUN	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
detentore	detentore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
acquistati	acquistato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	PD	conj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
osservate	osservare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
atipico	atipico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
atipico	atipico	ADJ	A	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	obl
normali	normale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
bidone	bidone	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
liquidi	liquido	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autocisterne	autocistere ne	NOUN	V_PC	obl:agent
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
economici	economico	ADJ	A	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
normalì	normalì	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
autoveicolo	autoveicolo	ADJ	A	dep
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
permanentemente	permanentemente	ADV	B	amod
installati	installare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruttore	costruttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
autoveicoli	autoveicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
trazione	trazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
occorrenza	occorrenza	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
refrigerazione	refrigerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
parimenti	parimenti	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	xcomp
normalì	normalire	VERB	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
installati	installare	VERB	V	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
motore	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consentono	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	conj
adattati	adattare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
installati	installare	VERB	V	acl
permanentemente	permanentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
costruttore	costruttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenitore	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
considerato	considerato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
permanente	permanente	ADJ	A	amod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
refrigerazione	refrigerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
contenitore	contenitore	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
specialì	specialì	VERB	V	advcl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
contenitore	contenitore	NOUN	S	obj
munito	munire	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	obl
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adattati	adattare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
refrigerazione	refrigerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ossigenazione	ossigenazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
isolamento	isolamento	NOUN	S	conj
termico	termico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
12	12	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	Deposito	PROPN	SP	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
custoditi	custodire	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabilizzati	contabilizzare	VERB	V	conj
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apposito	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
analogo	analogo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
spedizioni	spedizione	NOUN	S	nmod
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
località	località	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
attraversamento	attraversamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
e-DAS	e-DAS	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autobotti	autobotto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bettoline	bettolina	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzate	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15-bis	15-bis	ADJ	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
custoditi	custodito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
movimentati	movimentare	VERB	V	conj
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
unionali	unionale	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contrassegni	Contrassegni	NOUN	S	appos
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assoggettare	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
muniti	munire	VERB	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
vincolo	vincolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
intracomunitaria	intracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
viene	venire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
incamerata	incamerare	VERB	V	acl
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
mancanti	mancante	ADJ	A	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	conj
applicati	applicato	VERB	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
restituiti	restituire	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
motivate	motivato	ADJ	S	nsubj
richieste	richiesta	VERB	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proroga	proroga	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

fatto	fare	NOUN	S	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
restituiti	restituito	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
pagato	pagare	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
condizionati	condizionato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
partita	partita	NOUN	S	nmod
trasportata	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
contrassegnare	contrassegnare	VERB	V	acl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
acquistare	acquistare	VERB	V	xcomp
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obj
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
suindicati	suindicato	NOUN	S	obj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dogana	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
importare	importare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
viene	venire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
incamerata	incamerato	ADJ	A	amod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dogana	dogana	ADJ	A	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provveduto	provvedere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
restituiti	restituito	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
pagato	pagare	VERB	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
contrassegnati	contrassegnato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	ROOT
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
applicati	applicato	ADJ	S	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsato	rimborsare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
svincolata	svincolare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimossi	rimuovere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrutti	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-duodecies	39-duodecies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rimborsi	Rimborsi	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obl
accordate	accordare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	conj
versata	versato	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
10-ter	10-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitato	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
giurisdizionale	giurisdizionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	B	advmod
percepite	percepito	VERB	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesto	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
impone	imporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
rimborsare	rimborsare	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1284	1284	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
dar	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economica	economico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
svolta	svoltare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportati	esportare	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
miscelazioni	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
ottenga	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammontare	ammontare	VERB	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concesso	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
accredito	accredito	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
altra	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
singola	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
infedeli	infedelo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
volte	volgere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
importi	importo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dovuti	dovere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Recupero	Recupero	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADV	S	conj
abbuonate	abbuonato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
restituite	restituito	VERB	V	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
esigono	esigono	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	nmod
coattiva	coattivo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	ROOT
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
notificano	notificano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19-bis	19-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
fissando	fissare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perfezionamento	perfezionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
notificato	notificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrente	decorrente	ADJ	A	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
omesso	omesso	NOUN	S	nmod
versamento	versamento	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
indebita	indebita	ADJ	A	conj
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	compound
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
agevolato	agevolato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
deficienze	deficienza	NOUN	S	obl
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
cali	calo	NOUN	S	obj
consentiti	consentire	VERB	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	DET	T	advcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verbale	verbale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deficienze	deficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotta	interrotta	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azione	azione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
questo	questo	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
definisce	definire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Semprechè	Semprechè	PRON	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
iniziate	iniziare	VERB	V	ROOT
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoposto	NOUN	S	nmod
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	advcl
formale	formale	ADJ	A	amod
conoscenza	conoscenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vari	vario	ADJ	A	amod
settori	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conservati	conservare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riscossione	riscossione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
macchinario	macchinario	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
macchinario	macchinario	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
materiale	materiale	NOUN	S	conj
mobile	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
creditore	creditore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
multe	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	conj
pecuniarie	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
colpevoli	colpevolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	conj
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
termini	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vantati	vantare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
passivi	passivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
assolta	assolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cessionari	cessionario	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
corrisposto	corrisposto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
addebitati	addebitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debitore	debitore	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2752	2752	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
tuttavia	tuttavia	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
posposto	posposto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
questa	questo	PRON	PD	det
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
separatamente	separatamente	ADV	B	advmod
evidenziata	evidenziare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fattura	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
relazioni	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
diplomatiche	diplomatico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consolari	consolare	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
riconosciute	riconosciere	VERB	V	acl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
membri	membro	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
dette	detto	ADJ	A	amod
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
consentiti	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
sforzo	sforzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	nmod
svolto	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
difesa	difesa	NOUN	S	conj
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;)	;)	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
contraente	contraente	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Nord	Nord	PROPN	SP	nmod
Atlantico	Atlantico	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
consentiti	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
accordo	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
internazionali	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
consenta	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
esenzioni	esenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
prevedano	prevedano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esenzioni	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uopo	uopo	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
forze	forza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
organizzazioni	organizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abilitate	abilitare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
prodotti	prodotto	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
elettronico	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
certificato	certificato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
conforme	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formulario	formulario	NOUN	S	obl
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
con	con	ADP	E	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2020/262	2020/262	NUM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
fonda	fondare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattato	trattato	NOUN	S	obl
Nord	Nord	PROPN	SP	compound
Atlantico	Atlantico	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	ADV	PR	fixed
diversamente	diversamente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
stipulati	stipulare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2020/262	2020/262	NUM	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
colorazione	colorazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
regimi	regime	ADJ	S	nsubj:pass
agevolati	agevolare	VERB	V	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguite	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marcatura	marcatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
usati	usare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
orticoli	orticolo	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
distrutti	distrutti	VERB	V	ROOT
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
sorveglianza	sorveglianza	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	expl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	obl
scientifiche	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
riutilizzati	riutilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
esplica	esplico	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
incombenze	incombenza	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
destinatari	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
registrati	registrato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	conj
bolli	bollo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
suggelli	suggello	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ordinare	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opere	opera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	conj
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresa	compreso	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
istituiti	istituire	VERB	V	ROOT
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
inventari	inventare	NOUN	S	obj
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
permanentemente	permanentemente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvale	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
collaborazione	collaborazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tessera	tessera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1929	1929	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accedere	accedere	VERB	V	ROOT
liberamente	libero	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformati	trasformare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenuti	detenuto	NOUN	S	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzati	utilizzato	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
custodita	custodire	VERB	V	conj
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	xcomp
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
attinente	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddetti	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
eseguirvi	eseguire vi	VERB	V_PC	advcl
verificazioni	verificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riscontri	riscontro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inventari	inventare	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ispezioni	ispezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esaminare	esaminare	VERB	V	conj
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
pure	pure	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prelevare	prelevare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
redigendo	redigere	VERB	VA	aux
apposito	apposire	VERB	V	conj
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	conj
suggelli	suggello	NOUN	S	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
meccanismi	meccanismo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ispettori	ispettore	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
sovrintendenti	sovrintendento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
procedono	procedono	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
iniziativa	iniziativa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reperimento	reperimento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
acquisizione	acquisizione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
corretta	corretto	ADJ	A	amod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	amod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	cop
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
invitare	invitare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
responsabile	responsabile	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	conj
partecipi	partecipa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
utilizzatore	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	conj
attinente	attinente	ADJ	B	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicandone	indicandone	NOUN	S	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
comparire	comparire	VERB	V	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanti	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notizie	notizia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
chiarimenti	chiarimente	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	conj
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deposito	deposire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzazione	utilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	A	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comandante	comandante	NOUN	S	nmod
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
trasmettere	trasmettere	VERB	V	xcomp
copia	copia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutta	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	obl
intrattenuti	intrattenere	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cliente	cliente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
acquisiti	acquisire	ADJ	A	amod
potranno	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
settori	settore	NOUN	S	obl
impositivi	impositivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
richiedere	richiedere	VERB	V	advcl
copie	copia	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuti	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
utili	utile	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indagini	indagine	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositati	depositare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
perquisizioni	perquisizione	NOUN	S	obl
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
ora	ora	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
notizia	notizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
fondato	fondato	NOUN	S	conj
sospetto	sospetto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinato	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
riguardo	riguardo	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
competenze	competenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
verbalizzazione	verbalizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
svolgono	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
accertamenti	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
controllare	controllare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
tributari	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tali	tale	DET	DD	det
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
coordinamento	coordinamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
munito	munire	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tessera	tessera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
segnale	segnale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
strada	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
495	495	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
Guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	obl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegati	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	mark
apporre	apporre	VERB	V	dep
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	mark
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prelevamento	prelevamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
688/1982	688/1982	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
688	688	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
873	873	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19	19	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
compete	competere	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1929	1929	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbali	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sussiste	sussistere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
verbalizzanti	verbalizzante	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	CCONJ	V	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempestiva	tempestivo	ADJ	A	amod
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
emessi	emesso	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	compound
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
valutazioni	valutazione	NOUN	S	conj
utili	utile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verbali	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
verbalizzanti	verbalizzante	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
principio	principio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cooperazione	cooperazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
212	212	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esaminati	esaminare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
atti	atto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
verbale	verbale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	NOUN	S	nsubj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunicare	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
procedente	procedente	ADP	E	case
osservazioni	osservazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
motivata	motivare	VERB	V	conj
urgenza	urgenza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
valutate	valutare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
irrogazione	irrogazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
472	472	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	conj
regionale	regionale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
accertate	accertare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
19-bis	19-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Utilizzo	Utilizzo	PROPN	SP	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
posta	posta	NOUN	S	nmod
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
invio	invio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
avvisi	avviso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
posta	posta	NOUN	S	obl
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
certificata	certificare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
g	g	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
68	68	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
PEC	PEC	PROPN	SP	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
notificazione	notificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
notificare	notificare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
atti	atto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
raccomandata	raccomandata	NOUN	S	nmod
postale	postale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
avviso	avviso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
137	137	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
messo	messo	NOUN	S	nmod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fini	fine	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
iniziare	iniziare	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
denominata	denominare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
indirizzo	indirizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
PEC	PEC	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
OLI	OLI	PROPN	SP	nmod
MINERALI	MINERALI	PROPN	SP	flat:name

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
1507	1507	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1518	1518	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2701	2701	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2702	2702	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
2704	2704	NUM	N	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
2715	2715	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2901	2901	NUM	N	flat:name
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2902	2902	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2905	2905	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3403	3403	NUM	N	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	flat:name
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
17	17	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3824	3824	NUM	N	flat:name
90	90	NUM	N	flat:name
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	SP	compound
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2710	2710	NUM	N	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2710	2710	NUM	N	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
59	59	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2710	2710	NUM	N	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2710	2710	NUM	N	flat:name
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2710	2710	NUM	N	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	obl
lampante	lampante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cherosene	cherosene	VERB	V_PC_PC	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2710	2710	NUM	N	flat:name
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2710	2710	NUM	N	conj
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADP	V	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	flat
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2711	2711	NUM	N	conj
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
carbone	carbone	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lignite	lignite	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coke	Coke	PROPN	SP	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	dep
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2701	2701	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2702	2702	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2704	2704	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzi	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
messo	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
additivo	additivo	ADJ	A	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
accrescere	accrescere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obj
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetico	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
idrocarburo	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
torba	torba	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
messo	mettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	obl
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depurazione	depurazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
residui	residuo	NOUN	S	conj
oleosi	oleoso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
densi	denso	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
h	h	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	xcomp
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligate	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	obj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sostituire	sostituire	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
registrata	registrare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
fornitura	forniturare	VERB	V	xcomp
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
h	h	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
impiegate	impiegate	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	ADJ	AP	det:poss
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sostituirle	sostituire le	VERB	V_PC	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinato	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
determinato	determinare	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quarto	quarto	ADJ	NO	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
versata	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
trimestrali	trimestrale	ADJ	A	amod
calcolate	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
h	h	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
a	a	ADP	E	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detratte	detratre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	advmod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
saldo	saldo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretta	diretta	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	conj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
politica	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquote	aliquoto	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
impiegati	impiegato	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
area	area	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vapore	vapore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
petrolchimici	petrolchimice	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	nmod
combinate	combinare	VERB	V	acl
termoelettriche	termoelettrico	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vapore	vapore	NOUN	S	conj
tecnologico	tecnologico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
interni	interno	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-bis.1	9-bis.1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	acl
chimicamente	chimicamente	ADJ	A	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

0,240	0,240	NOUN	V	ROOT
kg	kg	NOUN	S	fixed
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	S	compound
;)	;)	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	appos
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

0,250	0,250	PROPN	SP	ROOT
mc	mc	NOUN	S	flat:name
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	SP	flat:name
;)	;)	X	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

0,197	0,197	NOUN	S	ROOT
kg	kg	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	S	compound
;)	;)	X	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
0,212	0,212	PROPN	SP	conj
kg	kg	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	S	flat:name
;)	;)	X	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
combustibile	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oli	olio	NOUN	A	conj
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	conj
greggi	gregge	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

0,221	0,221	PROPN	SP	ROOT
kg	kg	NOUN	S	flat:name
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	S	flat:name
;)	;)	X	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
carbone	carbone	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lignite	lignite	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coke	Coke	PROPN	SP	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

0,355	0,355	NOUN	SP	nmod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	compound
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
kWh	kWh	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
generazione	generazione	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
calore	calore	NOUN	S	conj
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	case
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	acl
chimicamente	chimicamente	ADV	B	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
0,211	0,211	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
0,220	0,220	PROPN	SP	nmod
mc	mc	PROPN	S	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
0,173	0,173	PROPN	SP	nmod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
0,186	0,186	PROPN	SP	nmod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
combustibile	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oli	olio	NOUN	A	conj
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	conj
greggi	gregge	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	conj
0,194	0,194	DET	SP	nmod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
kWh	KWh	PROPN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
carbone	carbone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lignite	lignite	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coke	Coke	PROPN	SP	conj
0,312	0,312	PROPN	SP	flat:name
kg	kg	NOUN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-quater	9-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	V_PC	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
aliquote	aliquote	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diretta	diretta	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	conj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
9-bis.1	9-bis.1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
generazione	generazione	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
calore	calore	NOUN	S	conj
utile	utile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
corrispondenti	corrispondente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquote	ADJ	SP	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
olio	olio	NOUN	S	obl
combustibile	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9-quinquies	9-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis.1	9-bis.1	PROPN	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
medi	medio	ADJ	A	amod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
sperimentazione	sperimentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
marce	marce	NOUN	S	nmod
controllate	controllato	ADJ	A	amod
svolte	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
contradditorio	contradditorio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
intracomunitaria	intracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
soltanto	soltanto	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
1507	1507	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1518	1518	NUM	N	nummod
se	se	ADV	B	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2707	2707	NUM	N	nummod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2707	2707	NUM	N	nummod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2707	2707	NUM	N	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2707	2707	NUM	N	conj
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	flat
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2710	2710	NUM	N	flat:name
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2710	2710	NUM	N	conj
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
movimenti	movimento	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sfusi	sfuso	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2711	2711	NUM	N	conj
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2901	2901	NUM	N	flat:name
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2902	2902	NUM	N	nummod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2902	2902	NUM	N	flat:name
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2902	2902	NUM	N	nummod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2902	2902	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2902	2902	NUM	N	conj
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2902	2902	NUM	N	conj
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2905	2905	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
-	-	X	X	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3811	3811	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
10,3811	10,3811	NUM	N	flat
11	11	NUM	N	flat
90	90	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3811	3811	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3811	3811	NUM	N	conj
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3824	3824	NUM	N	flat:name
90	90	NUM	N	flat:name
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
accordi	accordo	NOUN	S	obl
bilaterali	bilaterale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
interessati	interessare	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	PRON	PI	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
intracomunitaria	intracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tassati	tassare	VERB	V	ccomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
miscelazioni	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
chimica	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obl
elettrolitici	elettrolitico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
metallurgici	metallurgico	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
mineralogici	mineralogico	ADJ	A	conj
classificati	classificare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	comunità	NOUN	S	obl
europee	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
metalliferi	metallifero	VERB	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3037/90	3037/90	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	obl
statistica	statistico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
15°	15°	ADJ	NO	amod
Celsius	celsius	PROPN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pressione	pressione	NOUN	S	conj
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21-bis	21-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
emulsioni	emulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
durata	durata	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ridotta	ridotto	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emulsioni	emulsione	NOUN	S	obl
stabilizzate	stabilizzato	ADJ	A	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburazione	carburazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	SCONJ	CS	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
fabbisogno	fabbisogno	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
emulsione	emulsione	NOUN	S	ROOT
stabilizzata	stabilizzare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
variabile	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usata	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
374,67	374,67	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usata	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
245,16	245,16	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
emulsione	emulsione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
combustibile	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
denso	denso	ADJ	A	amod
ATZ	ATZ	PROPN	SP	obj
con	con	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
variabile	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usata	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
99,32	99,32	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
41,69	41,69	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
emulsione	emulsione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
combustibile	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
denso	denso	ADJ	A	amod
BTZ	BTZ	PROPN	SP	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuta	contenuto	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
variabile	variabile	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usata	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
29,52	29,52	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
20,84	20,84	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
emulsioni	emulsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburazione	carburazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22	22	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
fatto	fare	VERB	S	xcomp
generatore	generatore	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
fabbricati	fabbricato	ADJ	S	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
connessi	connesso	ADJ	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
propulsione	propulsione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
motore	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
tecnicamente	tecnicamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
conservare	conservare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
fluidità	fluidità	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Più	più	ADV	B	advmod
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attuano	attuano	VERB	V	acl:relcl
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
integrati	integrare	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
operano	operare	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
bilancio	bilancio	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fabbricati	fabbricato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
attuano	attuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
ottengono	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
accessoria	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
piccole	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
reimpiegato	reimpiegare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
energetico	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
recuperato	recuperare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
pagata	pagato	VERB	A	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sarebbe	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetico	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
reimpiegato	reimpiegare	VERB	V	acl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
fosse	essere	AUX	V	cop
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	nsubj
ottenuta	ottenuto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
benefici	beneficio	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ammontare	ammontare	VERB	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
22-bis	22-bis	PROPN	S	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcuni	alcuno	DET	DI	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
derivati	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
biomassa	biomassa	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
decorrenza	decorrenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
250.000	250.000	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	xcomp
tal	tale	DET	DD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
rientranti	rientrante	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
miscelati	miscelare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contabilizzato	contabilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
detrazione	detrazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
scritture	scrittura	NOUN	S	obl
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nsubj
aliquota	aliquoto	ADJ	A	conj
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	mark
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
rispettivi	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
possedere	possedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
partecipare	partecipare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
consentite	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
agevolati	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
dando	dare	VERB	V	advcl
priorità	priorità	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
proveniente	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
filiera	filiera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fruizione	fruizione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
forme	forma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
partecipano	partecipare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obl
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
graverebbe	graveere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultassero	risultassero	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
miscelati	miscelare	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	conj
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultassero	risultassero	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
miscelati	miscelare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	obl
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ancora	ancora	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
ripartiti	ripartire	VERB	V	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	obl
loro	loro	PRON	PE	iobj
assegnate	assegnare	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tali	tale	DET	DD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
miscelati	miscelare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	conj
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
usato	usare	VERB	V	advcl
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immessi	immesso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinuncia	rinuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parziale	parziale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quote	quota	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
beneficiario	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridistribuite	ridistribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
assegnazioni	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
beneficiari	beneficiario	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
trovano	trovare	VERB	A	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
180.000	180.000	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
256	256	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2003	2003	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
assegnatari	assegnatario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
180.000	180.000	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
immesso	immesso	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name

D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	amod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	S	nmod
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
residua	residuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnata	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
filiera	filiera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
ottenibili	ottenibile	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoscritti	sottoscritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
proporzionalmente	proporzionalmente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pendente	pendente	ADJ	A	amod
valutazione	valutazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
merito	merito	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
compatibilità	compatibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	nmod
normativo	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
comunitario	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assegnazione	assegnazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	conj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
assegnati	assegnare	ADJ	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ritengano	ritengare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
assegnatari	assegnatario	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	obl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
assegnato	assegnare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
immesso	immesso	ADV	B	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-ter	2-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzioni	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
intese	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
filiera	filiera	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
agricoltori	agricoltore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
decadenza	decadenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
agevolato	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
determina	determinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	amod
assegnato	assegnato	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatore	operatore	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
pluriennale	pluriennale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	ministero	NOUN	SP	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
medi	medio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	conj
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevati	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	xcomp
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sovracompensazione	sovracompensazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
addizionali	addizionale	ADJ	A	amod
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
validità	validità	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADJ	B	advmod
aumentato	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obl
aggiuntivi	aggiuntivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
erario	erario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contingente	contingente	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	VERB	A	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
richieda	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
incrementare	incrementare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	nmod
energetiche	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
determinino	determinino	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
ridotto	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
impatto	impatto	NOUN	S	obj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
soli	solo	ADJ	A	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
bioetanolo	bioetanolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
derivato	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
289,22	289,22	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

etere	etere	VERB	V	ROOT
etilterbutilico	etilterbutilico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ETBE	ETBE	PROPN	SP	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivato	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
origine	origine	NOUN	S	nmod
agricola	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
298,92	298,92	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
additivi	additivo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riformulanti	riformulante	ADJ	A	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
biomasse	biomasse	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
289,22	289,22	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
biodiesel	biodiesel	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
245,32	245,32	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spesa	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
annui	annuo	NOUN	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprensivo	comprensivo	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
varie	vario	ADJ	A	amod
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburazione	carburazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
abbattere	abbattere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
principali	principale	ADJ	A	amod
agenti	agente	NOUN	S	obj
inquinanti	inquinante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valutata	valutare	VERB	V	acl
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ciclo	ciclo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vita	vita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
cadenza	cadenza	NOUN	S	obl
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
programma	programma	NOUN	S	nmod
triennale	triennale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministeri	Ministeri	NOUN	SP	nsubj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
costi	costo	NOUN	S	obj
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
medi	medio	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agevolati	agevolato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevati	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suddette	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
rilevazioni	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sovracompensazione	sovracompensazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
costi	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
addizionali	addizionale	ADJ	A	amod
legati	legare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppo	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mare	mare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	conj
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-ter	5-ter	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzine	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ETBE	ETBE	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADJ	A	advmod
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
53	53	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzine	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
coerentemente	coerentemere	VERB	V_PC	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
f	f	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	obl
2003/30	2003/30	SYM	DI	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Parlamento	parlamento	NOUN	S	nmod
europeo	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
promozione	promozione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
biocarburanti	biocarburante	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	conj
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-quater	5-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
formulazione	formulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------------	------------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Depositi	Depositi	NOUN	SP	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
raffinerie	raffineria	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
ottengono	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carburazione	carburazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
petrolchimici	petrolchimice	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
sussistano	sussistere	VERB	V	advcl
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
necessità	necessità	NOUN	S	nsubj
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	PROPN	SP	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorra	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	PRON	PI	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	ROOT
effettui	effettui	PROPN	SP	nmod
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	conj
agevolata	agevolato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	A	amod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
esportazioni	esportazione	NOUN	S	conj
verso	verso	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	PROPN	SP	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
totale	totale	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
estrazioni	estrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
biennio	biennio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
propaggine	propaggino	ADJ	A	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
ubicato	ubicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
immediate	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
vicinanze	vicinanza	NOUN	S	obl
appartenente	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
societario	societario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
di	di	ADP	E	case
diversa	diverso	DET	DI	det
titolarità	titolarità	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
deposito	deposito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
648	648	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fallimentare	fallimentare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
colposi	colposi	VERB	V	acl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
V	V	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
VII	VII	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
VIII	VIII	PROPN	SP	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
XIII	XIII	ADJ	NO	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
libro	libro	NOUN	S	nmod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	advcl
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nsubj
concorsuali	concorsuale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
gravi	grave	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ripetute	ripetuto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
natura	natura	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
entità	entità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
disciplinano	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	conj
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestate	contestare	VERB	V	advcl
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
quinquennio	quinquennio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
passaggio	passaggio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
giudicato	giudicato	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
conclusiva	conclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
istante	istante	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emesso	emesso	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
424	424	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispone	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudizio	giudizio	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fallimentare	fallimentare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
laddove	laddove	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	V	amod
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fallimentare	fallimentare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nmod
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	conj
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
648	648	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
natura	natura	NOUN	S	nmod
tributaria	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fallimentare	fallimentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negate	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocate	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospese	sospese	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
ricorrano	ricorrere	NOUN	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	dep
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
permanenza	permanenza	NOUN	S	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possano	potere	AUX	VM	aux
ritenersi	ritenere si	VERB	V_PC	conj
sussistenti	sussistente	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprovato	comprovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	nmod
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consente	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
proseguire	proseguire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
constatata	constatare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	compound
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
100	100	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
estratti	estratto	ADJ	A	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	xcomp
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
adeguata	adeguare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Decorsi	Decorsi	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
comprovato	comprovare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
ripristino	ripristino	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
operare	operare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incluse	includere	VERB	V	advcl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
campionamento	campionamento	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
semilavorati	semilavorato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
finiti	finito	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
informatiche	informatica	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
dotati	dotare	VERB	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
idoneo	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	nmod
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
rilevati	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
autonomo	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
recinti	recinto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
assolta	assolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccetto	eccetto	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8-bis.(87	8-bis.(87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
rilavorazioni	rilavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gestito	gestire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2711	2711	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2711	2711	NUM	N	conj
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
carbone	carbone	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2701	2701	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lignite	lignite	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2702	2702	NUM	N	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
coke	Coke	PROPN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2704	2704	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24	24	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferme	Ferme	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegato	ADJ	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
ridotta	ridotto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
prevista	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordate	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accredito	accredito	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24-bis	24-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
formule	formula	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
variate	variare	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
emanazione	emanazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
formule	formula	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
24-ter	24-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gasolio	Gasolio	PROPN	SP	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettato	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
allegata	allegato	ADJ	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obj
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	compound
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
categoria	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	compound
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
garantisca	garantire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
attività	attività	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
7,5	7,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
esercitata	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
:	:	PUNCT	FC	obl:agent

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
iscritte	iscritte	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
albo	albo	ADJ	A	amod
nazionale	nazionale	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autotrasportatori	autotrasportatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
fisiche	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj
munite	munito	VERB	V	acl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autotrasporto	autotrasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
iscritte	iscritte	VERB	A	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	nmod
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
istituito	istituito	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
professione	professione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
strada	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	xcomp
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fune	fune	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	ADJ	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
I	I	ADJ	NO	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scadenza	scadenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
trimestri	trimestro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
litro	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
chilometro	chilometro	NOUN	S	obl
percorso	percorrere	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
veicolo	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sorto	sorgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accoglimento	accoglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decorso	decorso	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
alternativa	alternativa	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
spettante	spettare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuto	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
745/1970	745/1970	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
688/1982	688/1982	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1971	1971	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1161	1161	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	A	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
denunciarne	denunciare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualunque	qualunque	DET	PI	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
depositi	deposito	NOUN	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	PROPN	SP	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76)(83	76)(83	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	ROOT
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
supera	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nsubj
cubi	cubo	PROPN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
81)(83	81)(83	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esentate	esentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	conj
depositi	deposito	NOUN	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superi	superare	VERB	V	advcl
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
impianti	impianto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzativo	autorizzativo	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciato	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valida	valido	ADJ	V	advcl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contabilizzare	contabilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
custoditi	custodire	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
privato	privato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	compound
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	conj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegati	collegare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
dare	dare	VERB	V	xcomp
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
attribuito	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nsubj
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	NOUN	PD	nsubj
tengono	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
semplificate	semplificare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
stabilire	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
81)(83	81)(83	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
annotano	annotano	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distintamente	distintamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	dep
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettura	lettura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contatore	contatore	NOUN	S	nmod
totalizzatore	totalizzatore	NOUN	S	compound
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
colonnine	colonnina	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
installate	installato	ADJ	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
tipo	tipo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	nmod
erogato	erogato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
registrazione	registrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasmettono	trasmettere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prospetto	prospetto	NOUN	S	obj
riepilogativo	riepilogativo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
evidenziazione	evidenziazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rimanenze	rimanenza	NOUN	S	nmod
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
livelli	livello	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperature	temperatura	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nmod
installati	installato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
sostituzione	sostituzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
funzionanti	funzionante	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
self	self	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	nmod
service	service	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	ROOT
garantiscono	garantire	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
appositamente	appositamente	ADV	B	advmod
delegati	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
ventiquattro	ventiquattro	NUM	N	nummod
ore	ora	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
resa	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contabile	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	nmod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1934	1934	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1303	1303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
locatario	locatario	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
incombe	incombere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
intestata	intestare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
incombe	incombere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

ll	Ll	AUX	S	ROOT
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	appos
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
solidalmente	solidalmente	ADV	B	advmod
responsabili	responsabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	xcomp
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturato	ADJ	A	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cali	calo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
istruttoria	istruttoria	NOUN	S	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	compound
trovano	trovare	VERB	A	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obj
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
giuridiche	giuridico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospeso	sospendere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allorché	allorché	SCONJ	CS	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
ricorrano	ricorrere	NOUN	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previste	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivestono	rivestire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	dep
funzioni	funzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rappresentanza	rappresentanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6-ter	6-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatto	Fare	VERB	V	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
movimentano	movimentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
privi	privo	ADJ	A	xcomp
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	obl
tecnico	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
organizzativi	organizzativo	NOUN	V	obj
minimi	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
rapportati	rapportare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	conj
strumentali	strumentale	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
previsionale	previsionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifica	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
detengono	detengere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
estraggono	estraggere	VERB	V	conj
benzina	benzino	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
darne	dare ne	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontrata	riscontrato	ADJ	A	amod
sussistenza	sussistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
situazioni	situazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
adotta	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
motivati	motivato	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
successiva	successiva	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
termine	termine	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	mark
verificarsi	verificare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
impeditive	impeditivo	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sospesa	sospendere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
commesse	commettere	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituenti	costituente	NOUN	V	conj
delitti	delitto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punibili	punibile	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
pronuncia	pronuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
proscioglimento	proscioglimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluzione	assoluzione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

la	il	DET	RD	det
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
circolare	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	compound
trasferiti	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
comunicato	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
confermato	confermare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricezione	ricezione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
unicamente	unicamente	ADV	B	advmod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Uffici	Uffici	PROPN	SP	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circoscrizione	circoscrizione	NOUN	S	obl
territoriale	territoriale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
745/1970	745/1970	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
745	745	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1970	1970	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1034	1034	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	flat
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
usi	uso	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatore	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
estratto	estrarre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	il	DET	RD	det
vigenti	vigente	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tassazione	tassazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
gas	gas	NOUN	S	xcomp
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenenti	contenente	ADJ	V	amod
metano	metano	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	conj
gassosi	gassoso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
contenenti	contenente	ADJ	V	amod
metano	metano	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	conj
gassosi	gassoso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
proporzionale	proporzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	obl
complessivo	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
metano	metano	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
gassose	gassoso	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
originate	originare	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
biomassa	biomassa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
propri	proprio	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
le	il	PRON	PC	obj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	xcomp
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
immobiliari	immobiliare	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
abitativa	abitativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
pertinenze	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Rientra	rientrare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
domestico	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
destinato	destinato	VERB	A	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	ROOT
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
società	società	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
posti	porre	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dagli	da il	DET	E_RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
laboratori	laboratorio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aziende	azienda	NOUN	S	conj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
svolta	svolgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
produttiva	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
studi	studio	NOUN	S	conj
professionali	professionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituti	istituto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
istruzione	istruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
termica	termico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riempimento	riempimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
serbatoi	serbatoio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autoveicoli	autoveicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
derivati	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immobili	immobile	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
termica	termico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
cogenerativi	cogenerativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
teleriscaldamento	teleriscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obj
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
rete	rete	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
teleriscaldamento	teleriscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
rifornisce	rifornire	VERB	V	advcl
utenze	utenza	NOUN	S	obj
domestiche	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
uso	uso	NOUN	S	xcomp
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconsegna	riconsegna	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
applica	applico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatore	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	appos
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26-ter	26-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fatturano	fatturare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
designate	designare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	SP	flat:name
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
designate	designato	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
registrarsi	registrare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivendita	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
confezionato	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bombole	bombola	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
recipiente	recipiente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26-ter	26-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	acl:relcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	conj
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
avvalendosi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reti	rete	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasdotti	gasdotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
vettoriamento	vettoriamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
confezionato	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bombole	bombola	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
recipiente	recipiente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	conj
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
estraggono	estraggono	VERB	V	advcl
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
gestori	gestore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reti	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasdotti	gasdotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	appos
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
vettoriamento	vettoriamento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obj
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	A	nsubj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dotati	dotare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
compressione	compressione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
riempimento	riempimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carri	carro	NOUN	S	nmod
bombolai	bombolao	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	parataxis
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rilascio	Rilascio	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
denunciano	denunciare	VERB	V	advcl
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
completezza	completezza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
164	164	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
scambiano	scambiare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzati	autorizzare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Autorità	Autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
regolazione	regolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
reti	rete	NOUN	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ARERA	ARERA	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tempistiche	tempistica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	acl
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
integrato	integrato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	obl
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	obl
26-ter	26-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
semestri	semestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
riportano	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riportano	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	conj
emesse	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	V	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	conj
emesse	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
consumati	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	ADJ	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Entro	Entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versano	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	obj
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dovuto	dovuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detratte	detratre	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
completo	completo	NOUN	A	obl
esaurimento	esaurimento	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorrente	intercorrente	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
procedono	procede	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatturazione	fatturazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
ceduto	ceduto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versano	versare	VERB	V	advcl
acconti	acconte	NOUN	S	obj
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
iniziano	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consumare	consumare	VERB	V	xcomp
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versando	versare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovere	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	parataxis
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fattura	fattura	NOUN	S	conj
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ARERA	ARERA	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	nmod
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	amod
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adeguano	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
aritmetica	aritmetico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	PD	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
escussione	escussione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
antecedenti	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
escussione	escussione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
versato	versare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
superi	superare	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
escussa	escusso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versata	versare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
rideterminato	rideterminare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
permane	permanere	VERB	V	conj
invariato	invariare	VERB	V	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
fatturati	fatturato	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
suddivisi	suddividere	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contabilizzano	contabilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
estratti	estratto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquistati	acquistare	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ceduti	ceduto	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	acl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
emesse	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
26-quater	26-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
vettoriamento	vettoriamento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
sistemi	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
reti	rete	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stoccaggio	stoccaggio	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
rigassificazione	rigassificazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
danno	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vettoriamento	vettoriamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
:))	:))	PUNCT	FC	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
riepilogativa	riepilogativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
trasportato	trasportare	ADJ	A	amod
rilevati	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;)	;)	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	advcl
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
preposti	preporre	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnato	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;)	;)	PUNCT	FC	xcomp
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
sottratti	sottratti	VERB	V	acl
fraudolentemente	fraudolentemente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
26-quinquies	26-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26-bis	26-bis	PROPN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
26-ter	26-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
26-quater	26-quater	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
erogato	erogare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
pluralità	pluralità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzatori	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
punto	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconsegna	riconsegna	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
26-bis	26-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
emesse	emesso	ADJ	V	xcomp
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	conj
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
semprechè	semprechè	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
vengano	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
assolta	assolto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	conj
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
pagata	pagato	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivo	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
privato	privato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ospiti	ospite	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
assolta	assolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
ottenuti	ottenere	ADJ	A	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
formino	formare	VERB	V	acl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aggiunte	aggiunta	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
reciproco	reciproco	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3199/93	3199/93	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
come	come	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
previamente	previamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
formule	formula	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
approvate	approvare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
formule	formula	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
manutenzione	manutenzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
pulizia	pulizia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
impiegate	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aceto	aceto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2209	2209	NUM	N	flat:name
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenga	contengare	VERB	V	acl
alcole	alcole	ADJ	A	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	nmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
analcoliche	analcolico	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
semilavorati	semilavorato	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ripieni	ripieno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
8,5	8,5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
puro	puro	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
cioccolato	cioccolato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
litri	litro	NOUN	S	conj
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
puro	puro	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
merci	merce	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
come	come	ADP	E	case
campioni	campione	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
prove	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
scientifici	scientifico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	NO	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
componente	componente	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obl
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
trasferito	trasferire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
immesso	immesso	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	conj
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
state	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aggiunte	aggiungere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
formula	formula	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaturazione	denaturazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3199/93	3199/93	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
notificata	notificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
reciproco	reciproco	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accordate	accordare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sui	Sui	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
ritirati	ritirare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
divenuti	divenuto	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
idonei	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
umano	umano	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsata	rimborsare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
pagata	pagato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
rimborsi	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
vedi	vedere	VERB	V	parataxis
allegato	allegato	VERB	V	obj
I.	I.	PROPN	SP	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	ADJ	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	dep
28	28	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Depositi	Depositi	NOUN	SP	dep
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
consentite	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rettificazione	rettificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermede	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
annessi	annesso	NOUN	S	conj
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	punct
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	xcomp
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
cantine	cantina	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
funzionale	funzionale	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
soddisfare	soddisfare	VERB	V	advcl
oggettive	oggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
operatività	operatività	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	xcomp
promiscui	promiscui	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
invecchiamento	invecchiamento	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spiriti	spirito	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
rettificazione	rettificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	conj
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	xcomp
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	acl
fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dei	di il	DET	E_RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
movimentazioni	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obj
intracomunitarie	intracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
custodire	custodire	VERB	V	xcomp
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercianti	commerciante	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ingrosso	ingrosso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
ricorrere	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
risponde	rispondere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
adeguate	adeguato	ADJ	A	amod
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	obl
economiche	economico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinato	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuta	detenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riferite	riferire	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
custoditi	custodito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
g	g	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
magazzini	magazzino	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
aderito	aderire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	mark
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
custoditi	custodito	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
condizionati	condizionare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
recinti	recinto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detenuti	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
assolta	assolto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eccetto	eccetto	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
strettamente	strettamente	ADV	B	advmod
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
aziendale	aziendale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
ricevuti	ricevuto	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8-bis	8-bis	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
29	29	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
23/1933	23/1933	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

20	20	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
22	22	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
1200/1948	1200/1948	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
142/1950	142/1950	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3/1956	3/1956	NOUN	S	compound
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14-bis	14-bis	SPACE	FF	punct

D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
216/1978	216/1978	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	X	punct
*	*	PUNCT	X	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
legge	leggere	VERB	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	obj
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Deposito	deposito	PROPN	SP	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
denunciarne	denunciare ne	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
300	300	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fuori	Fuori	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sportello	Sportello	PROPN	SP	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
produttive	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
la	il	DET	RD	det
trasmette	trasmette	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
25	25	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
spirito	spirito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
confezionati	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
vermouth	vermouth	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
vini	vine	NOUN	S	conj
aromatizzati	aromatizzato	VERB	A	amod
confezionati	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dosi	dose	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
preparare	preparare	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
litro	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munito	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aromi	aromi	NOUN	S	advcl
alcolici	alcolico	NOUN	A	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
spirito	spirito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	NOUN	A	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizionate	condizionato	VERB	A	acl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5000	5000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vino	vino	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	acl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
vini	vine	ADJ	S	conj
aromatizzati	aromatizzato	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquaviti	acquavito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addizionati	addizionare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
gassata	gassato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soda	soda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
centilitri	centilitro	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
11	11	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
contabilizzare	contabilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
muniti	munire	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	nmod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
condizionate	condizionato	VERB	V	amod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
8.000	8.000	NUM	N	nummod
anidri	anidro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
eccezioni	eccezione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
registro	registro	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
negata	negare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
3/1956	3/1956	NOUN	S	nmod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	compound
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	X	nummod
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
216/1978	216/1978	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
216	216	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	obl
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	flat:name
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
23/1933	23/1933	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

20	20	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
22	22	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
1200/1948	1200/1948	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
142/1950	142/1950	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3/1956	3/1956	NOUN	S	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	obj
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
415	415	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
14-bis	14-bis	ADJ	A	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
216/1978	216/1978	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	obj
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturati	denaturato	VERB	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
circolare	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
confezionati	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
vini	vine	NOUN	S	conj
aromatizzati	aromatizzato	NOUN	S	amod
confezionati	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
dosi	dose	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
preparare	preparare	VERB	V	advcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
più	più	PRON	PI	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
litro	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munire	VERB	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegno	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
solidi	solidare	VERB	A	advcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	appos
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
spirito	spirito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
ottenute	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	dep
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
ottenute	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizionate	condizionato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
profumerie	profumeria	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aromi	aromio	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizionati	condizionare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scortati	scortare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
627	627	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
integrato	integrare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
vini	vine	NOUN	S	conj
aromatizzati	aromatizzato	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquaviti	acquavito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
addizionati	addizionare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
gassata	gassato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
soda	soda	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
centilitri	centilitro	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
11	11	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
h	h	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
comunitario	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	NO	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
vini	vine	NOUN	S	nmod
liquorosi	liquoroso	ADJ	A	amod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esigenze	esigenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
30-bis	30-bis	DET	DD	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
completamente	completamente	ADV	B	advmod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
circolano	circolare	VERB	V	ROOT
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
31	31	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
23/1933	23/1933	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
1200/1948	1200/1948	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
3/1956	3/1956	NOUN	S	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
14	14	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	ROOT

19	19	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1956	1956	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1019	1019	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
etichettatura	etichettatura	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
posti	porre	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
condizionati	condizionare	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
recipienti	recipiente	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
etichette	etichetta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39	39	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estremi	estrema	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
fabbricante	fabbricante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	conj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sezione	sezione	NOUN	S	ROOT
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alcole	alcole	PROPN	SP	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	A	obl
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
Celsius	Celsius	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obl
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2207	2207	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2208	2208	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
parte	parte	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
capitolo	capitolo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rientrano	rientrare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2206	2206	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	appos
spiritose	spiritoso	ADJ	A	amod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
solidi	solido	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33	33	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	flat:name
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
213	213	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
installati	installare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
deterininata	deterininare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttività	produttività	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alambicchi	alambicco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
giornata	giornata	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provviste	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
fuoco	fuoco	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
alambicco	alambicco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
murato	murare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altrimenti	altrimenti	ADV	B	advmod
fissato	fissare	VERB	V	conj
stabilmente	stabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornello	fornello	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
producano	producano	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttività	produttività	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
cotta	cotta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	nmod
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
strumento	strumento	NOUN	S	obj
contatore	contatore	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cotte	cotto	NOUN	S	nmod
fatte	fare	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
diretta	diretta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
stabile	stabile	ADJ	A	amod
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocato	collocare	VERB	V	ccomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
recipiente	recipiente	ADJ	A	amod
collettore	collettore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigillato	sigillare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziario	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
venga	venire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
raccogliersi	raccogliere si	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obj
prodotto	produrre	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
predisposte	predispostere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
attrezzature	attrezzatura	NOUN	S	obj
ritenute	ritenuto	VERB	A	amod
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
diretto	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preso	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	advmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
misuratore	misuratore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
evenienza	evenienza	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
prende	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
quest'	questo	DET	DD	det
ultimo	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diminuito	diminuire	VERB	V	acl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
misuratore	misuratore	NOUN	S	nsubj
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
munito	munire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
testata	testato	NOUN	S	obl
compensata	compensato	VERB	A	xcomp
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
maggior	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultante	VERB	V	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
misuratore	misuratore	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quello	quello	PRON	PD	conj
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recipiente	recipiente	ADJ	A	amod
collettore	collettore	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assunti	assumere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recipiente	recipiente	ADJ	A	amod
collettore	collettore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
installato	installare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttività	produttività	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alambicchi	alambicco	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
basse	basso	ADJ	A	amod
portate	portare	VERB	S	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	conj
tecnici	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	ROOT
installare	installare	VERB	V	csubj
il	il	DET	RD	det
misuratore	misuratore	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	conj
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ccomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
installazione	installazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alcoligene	alcolie ge ne	VERB	V_PC_PC	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
semilavorati	semilavorato	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
avviare	avviare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
33-bis	33-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Piccole	Piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendenti	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
esercenti	esercente	ADJ	A	amod
le	il	DET	RD	det
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certifica	certifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
distilleria	distilleria	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
distillerie	distilleria	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	DET	DE	det
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
fisicamente	fisicamente	ADV	B	advmod
distinti	distinti	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
immateriale	immateriale	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33-ter	33-ter	ADJ	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Produzione	Produzione	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
dealcolazione	dealcolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ferme	Ferme	PROPN	SP	advcl
restando	restare	VERB	V	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	amod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obj
dealcolato	dealcolare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
agricoltura	agricoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sovranità	sovranità	NOUN	S	conj
alimentare	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foreste	foresta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	amod
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obj
dealcolato	dealcolato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assetto	assetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
semplificate	semplificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
34	34	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
Celsius	Celsius	PROPN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	NOUN	SP	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obl
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2203	2203	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2206	2206	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
entrambi	entrambi	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,5	0,5	NUM	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
esente	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nsubj
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumata	consumare	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ospiti	ospite	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
formi	fore mi	VERB	V_PC	acl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
D.L.vo	D.L.vo	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
464	464	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immessa	immettere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
partita	partita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
sottoporre	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tassazione	tassazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dato	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
nominali	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	conj
nominali	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarati	dichiarato	ADJ	V	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuto	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux
arrotondato	arrotondare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
litro	litro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
computando	computare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
intero	intero	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	obj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzo	mezzo	ADJ	A	amod
litro	litro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
Plato	Plato	PROPN	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2030	2030	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
secco	secco	ADJ	A	amod
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mosto	mosto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
zuccheri	zucchero	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
aggiunte	aggiungere	NOUN	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obl
prodotta	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2031	2031	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
Plato	Plato	PROPN	SP	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
secco	secco	ADJ	A	amod
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mosto	mosto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
derivata	derivata	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sommato	sommare	VERB	V	advcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ingredienti	ingrediento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
aggiunti	aggiunto	ADJ	V	amod
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
completamento	completamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotta	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
ricchezza	ricchezza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
saccarometrica	saccarometrico	ADJ	A	amod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
arrotondata	arrotondare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trascurando	trascurare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
frazioni	frazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
centesimi	centesimo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
computando	computare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obj
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
variati	variare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
metodi	metodo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
Plato	Plato	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
installati	installare	VERB	V	ROOT
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
contatori	contatore	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
monte	monte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
semilavorati	semilavorato	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ultimate	Ultimate	VERB	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
custodito	custodire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposito	apposito	NOUN	S	obl
magazzino	magazzino	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
preso	prendere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imbottigliamento	imbottigliamento	NOUN	S	nmod
gestiti	gestire	VERB	V	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
installati	installare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
contatori	contatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatta	Fatta	VERB	V	nsubj
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
motivata	motivato	ADJ	S	amod
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
birrifici	birrificio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1962	1962	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1354	1354	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obj
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
accertato	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obl
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
birrifici	birrificio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
ridotta	ridurre	NOUN	S	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
40	40	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	dep
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2023	2023	NUM	N	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
50	50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
28	28	NUM	N	obl
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	case
assetto	assetto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
semplificate	semplificato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-quater	3-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2023	2023	NUM	N	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzata	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
birrifici	birrificio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1962	1962	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1354	1354	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obj
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
60.000	60.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotta	ridotto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
birrifici	birrificio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	X	fixed
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
birrifici	birrificio	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
60.000	60.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
potenzialità	potenzialità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nmod
stipulare	stipulare	VERB	V	flat:name
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valevoli	valevolo	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
convenuta	convenire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
semestrali	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
anticipate	anticipato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
avverati	avverare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esigibilità	esigibilità	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
rotture	rottura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	conj
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pari	pari	ADJ	A	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
0,30	0,30	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerate	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
eccedente	eccedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	ADP	E	case
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sviluppi	sviluppo	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tecniche	tecnica	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
tolleranze	tolleranza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
decimi	decimo	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
grado	grado	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gradazione	gradazione	NOUN	S	nmod
saccarometrica	saccarometrico	ADJ	A	amod
media	medio	ADJ	A	amod
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevata	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontri	riscontro	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
condizionati	condizionare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
specie	specie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	ROOT
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
metrica	metrico	ADJ	A	amod
vigente	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
nominale	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarato	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	obl
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
imballaggi	imballaggio	NOUN	S	obl
preconfezionati	preconfezionato	VERB	A	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
gradazione	gradazione	NOUN	S	obj
media	medio	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarata	dichiarare	VERB	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
decimi	decimo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
decimi	decimo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
prende	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
eccedente	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
tolleranza	tolleranza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritti	prescritto	NOUN	S	nmod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	compound
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
decimi	decimo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
penalità	penalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
lotti	lotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
contenitori	contenitore	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imballagi	imballago	NOUN	S	obl
preconfezionati	preconfezionare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
superano	superare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
tolleranze	tolleranza	NOUN	S	obj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
grado	grado	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
volume	volume	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
grado	grado	NOUN	S	compound
eccedenti	eccedere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
5	5	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
dichiarati	dichiarato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritti	prescritto	NOUN	S	nmod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	compound
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
suddetta	suddetto	ADJ	A	amod
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
penalità	penalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
36	36	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranquillo	tranquillo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
spumante	spumante	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposto	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obj
tranquillo	tranquillo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vini	vine	NOUN	S	nmod
spumanti	spumante	ADJ	A	amod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	appos
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
derivi	derivare	VERB	A	xcomp
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
arricchimenti	arricchimento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	conj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
derivi	derivare	VERB	A	xcomp
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nsubj
spumantè	spumantè	VERB	A	amod
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
06	06	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
07	07	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
08	08	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
09	09	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
10	10	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
:))	:))	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
bottiglie	bottiglia	NOUN	S	obl
chiuse	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
tappo	tappo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fungo	fungo	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermagli	fermaglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legacci	legaccio	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sovrappressione	sovrappressione	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anidride	anidride	NOUN	S	obl
carbonica	carbonico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
bar	bar	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
derivi	derivare	VERB	A	xcomp
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	V	cop
esente	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nsubj
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumato	consumare	VERB	V	conj
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ospiti	ospite	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
formi	fore mi	VERB	V_PC	acl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Fatto	Fare	VERB	S	advcl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
vinicoli	vinicolo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cantine	cantina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finiti	finito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
436/2009	436/2009	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
L	L	PROPN	SP	nmod
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2009	2009	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
37	37	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
particolari	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
meno	meno	ADV	B	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
media	medio	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ultime	ultimo	ADJ	NO	amod
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
campagne	campagna	NOUN	S	nmod
viticole	viticolo	ADJ	A	amod
consecutive	consecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/273	2018/273	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
piccoli	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dispensati	dispensare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fintanto	fintanto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
connessi	connesso	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sono	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
invece	invece	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
informare	informare	VERB	V	xcomp
gli	il	DET	RD	det
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
intracomunitarie	intracomunitario	ADJ	A	amod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assolvere	assolvere	VERB	V	advcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/273	2018/273	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
sottoporsi	sottoporre si	VERB	V_PC	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
vigenza	vigenza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	ROOT
restando	restira	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
vincoli	vincolo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
avviene	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
vitivinicolo	vitivinicolo	NOUN	S	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
iniziano	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
concludono	conclude	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
redazione	redazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventario	inventario	NOUN	S	nmod
fisico	fisico	ADJ	S	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
semilavorati	semilavorato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
finiti	finito	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assolti	assolti	VERB	V	ROOT
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
obbligatorie	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresa	compreso	ADJ	A	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rilevazione	rilevazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giacenze	giacenza	NOUN	S	nmod
effettive	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
occasione	occasione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conti	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delegato	delegato	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
2018/273	2018/273	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
37-bis	37-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Piccolo	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Direzione	Direzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certifica	certifico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
realizzato	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
risultare	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	DET	DE	det
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	ccomp
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
fisicamente	fisicamente	ADV	B	advmod
distinti	distinti	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
immateriale	immateriale	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
38	38	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposte	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	obj
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	obl
fermentate	fermentare	VERB	V	acl
tranquille	tranquillo	ADJ	A	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
menzionati	menzionare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2206	2206	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	obj
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
gassate	gassata	NOUN	S	nmod
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	xcomp
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
gassate	gassata	VERB	S	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2206	2206	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2206	2206	NUM	N	conj
00	00	NUM	N	flat:name
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
06	06	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
07	07	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
08	08	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
09	09	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
10	10	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
soddisfino	soddisfare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
:))	:))	PUNCT	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentati	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
bottiglie	bottiglia	NOUN	S	obl
chiuse	chiuso	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
tappo	tappo	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fungo	fungo	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermagli	fermaglio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
legacci	legaccio	NOUN	S	conj
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
avere	avere	VERB	V	conj
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sovrappressione	sovrappressione	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anidride	anidride	NOUN	S	obl
carbonica	carbonico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
bar	bar	NOUN	S	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
avere	avere	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
13	13	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	advcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
derivi	derivare	VERB	V	xcomp
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
le	il	DET	RD	det
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nsubj
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tranquille	tranquillo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gassate	gassato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fabbricate	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
privato	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumate	consumare	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
familiari	familiare	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
ospiti	ospite	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
condizione	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
formino	formare	VERB	V	acl
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcuna	alcuno	DET	DI	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finiti	finito	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
opifici	opificio	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38-bis	38-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Piccolo	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
producono	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottenute	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bacche	bacca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ortaggi	ortagge	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
succo	succo	NOUN	S	conj
fresco	fresco	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
concentrato	concentrato	ADJ	A	conj
ricavato	ricavare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
soluzione	soluzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
miele	miele	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certifica	certifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
forniti	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Direzione	Direzione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
politiche	politica	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
alimentari	alimentare	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
prodotte	produrre	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
15.000	15.000	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nsubj
produttivo	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	DET	DE	det
utilizza	utilizza	VERB	S	nmod
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obj
fisicamente	fisicamente	ADV	B	advmod
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
immateriale	immateriale	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39	39	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
riferita	riferire	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
finito	finito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2204	2204	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2205	2205	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2206	2206	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contemplati	contemplare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
36	36	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
38	38	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1,2	1,2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ccomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	xcomp
intermedio	intermedio	NOUN	S	compound
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
bevanda	bevanda	NOUN	S	nmod
fermentata	fermentare	ADJ	A	acl
tranquilla	tranquillo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5,5	5,5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	conj
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
bevanda	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentata	fermentare	VERB	V	acl
gassata	gassare	VERB	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolometrico	alcolometrico	ADJ	A	amod
effettivo	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
8,5	8,5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
deriva	derivare	VERB	V	conj
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fermentazione	fermentazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finiti	finito	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presi	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	conj
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esperimenti	esperimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricorrendone	ricorrendone	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
certifica	certifico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
resa	rendere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
445	445	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
ettolitri	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
legalmente	legalmente	ADV	B	advmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
economicamente	economicamente	ADV	B	advmod
indipendente	indipendente	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	DET	DE	det
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
impianti	impianto	NOUN	A	amod
fisicamente	fisicamente	ADV	B	advmod
distinti	distinti	VERB	V_PC	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	conj
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
immateriale	immateriale	ADJ	A	amod
altrui	altrui	DET	AP	det:poss
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabaccho	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
trinciato	trinciare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
usarsi	usare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
fiuto	fiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
masticare	masticare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	cop
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
definiti	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
sigari	sigario	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
proprietà	proprietà	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normali	normale	ADJ	A	amod
attese	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
fumati	fumato	VERB	V	xcomp
tali	tale	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rotoli	rotolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
muniti	munire	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fascia	fascia	NOUN	S	obl
esterna	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rotoli	rotolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
riempiti	riempito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
battuto	battuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
muniti	munito	ADJ	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
fascia	fascia	NOUN	S	obl
esterna	esterno	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colore	colore	NOUN	S	nmod
tipico	tipico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
ricostituito	ricostituito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ricoprente	ricoprente	ADV	B	amod
interamente	interamente	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
filtro	filtro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
escluso	escluso	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
bocchino	bocchino	NOUN	S	obj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
provvisti	provvista	VERB	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	advcl
peso	peso	NOUN	S	obj
unitario	unitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
il	il	DET	RD	det
filtro	filtro	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
bocchino	bocchino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
2,3	2,3	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
circonferenza	circonferenza	NOUN	S	conj
misurabile	misurabile	ADJ	A	amod
su	su	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lunghezza	lunghezza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
millimetri	millimetro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rotoli	rotolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fumati	fumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tali	tale	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quali	quale	PRON	PR	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
sigari	sigario	ADJ	A	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
rotoli	rotolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
semplice	semplice	ADJ	A	amod
manipolazione	manipolazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
tubi	tubo	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arrotolati	arrotolare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
fogli	foglio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
carta	carta	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	xcomp
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
trinciato	trinciare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
frazionato	frazionato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
filato	filare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
compresso	compresso	VERB	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
tavolette	tavoletta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fumato	fumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	obl
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
cascami	cascame	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
preparati	preparato	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fumati	fumare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
cascami	cascamo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
residui	residuo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
foglie	foglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
sottoprodotti	sottoprodotto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

d	d	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fiuto	fiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
polvere	polvere	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
grani	grano	NOUN	S	conj
specialmente	specialmente	ADV	B	advmod
preparato	preparare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
fiutato	fiutare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fumato	fumato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
masticare	masticare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obj
presentato	presentare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rotoli	rotolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
barre	barre	PROPN	V	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
lamine	lamine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tavolette	tavoletta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
condizionato	condizionare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minuto	minuto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
specialmente	specialmente	ADV	B	advmod
preparato	preparare	VERB	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
masticato	masticare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fumato	fumato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
tabacchi	tabacco	VERB	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
riscaldato	riscaldato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	xcomp
trinciato	trinciare	VERB	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
per	per	ADP	E	fixed
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numeri	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
particelle	particella	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lunghezza	lunghezza	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
1,5	1,5	NUM	N	nummod
millimetri	millimetro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituiti	costituito	ADJ	A	acl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituito	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl
solide	solido	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
deroga	deroga	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	obj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
medica	medico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fiuto	fiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
masticare	masticare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
parzialmente	parzialmente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rispondono	rispondere	VERB	V	conj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-quater	39-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tariffe	Tariffe	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffe	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
risultanti	risultare	VERB	V	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
richieste	richiesta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
corredate	corredare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
scheda	scheda	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rappresentativa	rappresentativo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
conseguenti	conseguere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obl
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
pacchetti	pacchetto	NOUN	S	obl
confezionati	confezionare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
venti	venti	NUM	N	conj
pezzi	pezzo	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
conclusione	conclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
decorre	decorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
quarantacinque	quarantacinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
procedimenti	procedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
lavorativi	lavorativo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tabelle	Tabelle	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
pubblicare	pubblicare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
ripartizione	ripartizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissati	fissare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	dep
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
chilogrammo	chilogera	AUX	S	obl
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
denominato	denominare	VERB	V	acl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	xcomp
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
annualmente	annualmente	ADV	B	advmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
troncamento	troncamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimali	decimalo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
comprensivo	comprensivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutte	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	conj
immesse	immettere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	xcomp
precedente	precedere	ADJ	A	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-sexies	39-sexies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazioni	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-ter	39-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
volta	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
seconda	seconda	ADV	B	advmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
vigente	vigente	VERB	B	advmod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
importazioni	importazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
ordinario	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1972	1972	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
633	633	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Resta	resta	VERB	V	nsubj
ferma	fermare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
427	427	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
immissioni	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
svincoli	svincolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irregolari	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-septies	39-septies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aggio	aggio	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivenditori	rivenditore	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aggio	aggio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivenditori	rivenditore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n	n	X	X	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
1293	1293	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-octies	39-octies	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Aliquote	Aliquote	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
applicabile	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
c	c	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d	d	NOUN	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
e	e	CCONJ	CC	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I.	I.	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquota	aliquoto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituito	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
fisso	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
29,30	29,30	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
29,50	29,50	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
risultante	risultare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tabacchi	Tabacchi	PROPN	SP	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	N	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obj
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obj
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigaretti);(67)(73)(78	sigaretti);(67)(73)(78	PROPN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	appos
trinciato	trinciare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
usarsi	usare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette).(67)(73	sigarette).(67)(73	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
78	78	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
113	113	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
126	126	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	conj
2011/64	2011/64	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
98,10	98,10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
costituita	costituire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
calcolate	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	SP	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
percentuale	percentuale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	parataxis
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
98,70	98,70	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
98,80	98,80	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicato	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-sexsies	39-sexsies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
risulti	risulto	VERB	V	advcl
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
onere	onere	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
minimo	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-sexsies	39-sexsies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
definito	definire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lunghezza	lunghezza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	NOUN	V	conj
filtro	filtro	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bocchino	bocchino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
centimetri	centimetro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
centimetri	centimetro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
come	come	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	conj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
lunghezza	lunghezza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	NOUN	V	conj
filtro	filtro	NOUN	S	xcomp
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
bocchino	bocchino	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
centimetri	centimetro	NOUN	S	obl
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
centimetri	centimetro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
via	via	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	flat:name
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incidenza	incidenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
onere	onere	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	compound
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
incidenza	incidenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
percentuale	percentuale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
compresa	comprendere	VERB	S	xcomp
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
intervallo	intervallo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2011/64	2011/64	NUM	N	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
UE	UE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADJ	B	advmod
rideterminata	rideterminato	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obj
componente	componente	ADJ	A	amod
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
derivino	derivino	VERB	V	case
minori	minore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
erariali	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	ccomp
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-novies	39-novies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Esenzioni	Esenzioni	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	A	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
39-decies	39-decies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	Accertamento	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	NOUN	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
operative	operativo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicando	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
immesse	immere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
risultante	risultare	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	flat
vigenti	vigere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ammanchi	ammanco	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	dep
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	conj
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Resta	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1963	1963	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
303	303	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
trovano	trovare	VERB	A	conj
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
28	28	NUM	N	advmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
452	452	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositari	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-undecies	39-undecies	NUM	N	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vigilanza	Vigilanza	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	conj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidata	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quadro	quadro	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gettito	gettito	NOUN	S	nmod
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
derivante	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
dovranno	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
svolgersi	svolgere si	VERB	V_PC	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentiti	sentire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
Comando	comando	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l	L	DET	RD	det
'	'	DET	RD	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
connessi	connesso	ADJ	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
addestramento	addestramento	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accasermamento	accasermamento	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
39-duodecies	39-duodecies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contrassegni	contrassegni	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	Direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
indicazioni	indicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
contenere	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittimità	legittimità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzato	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10-bis	10-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
depositario	depositario	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tramite	tramite	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	conj
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
muniti	munito	ADJ	V	acl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
divenuta	divenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimborsato	rimborsare	VERB	V	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ritenuta	ritenere	VERB	V	advcl
soddisfacente	soddisfacente	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	obl:agent
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	SP	nmod
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rimossi	rimuovere	VERB	V	ccomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrutti	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
39-terdecies	39-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
tema	tema	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quater	39-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-octies	39-octies	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
etichettatura	etichettatura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-sexies	39-sexieso	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
39-septies	39-septies	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trentacinque	trentacinque	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
36,5	36,5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
38	38	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
39,5	39,5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2026	2026	NUM	N	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	advmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
marche	marca	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
vendute	venduto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aspirazione	aspirazione	NOUN	S	nmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
dispositivo	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
specificamente	specificamente	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornito	fornire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rideterminata	rideterminato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ferma	Ferma	VERB	V	ROOT
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
184	184	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
ingredienti	ingrediente	VERB	V	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
peso	peso	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Capo	capo	NOUN	S	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SANZIONI	SANZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40	40	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
7746	7746	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fabbrica	fabbrico	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
raffina	raffinare	VERB	V	conj
clandestinamente	clandestinamente	ADV	B	advmod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
destina	destinare	VERB	V	parataxis
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	compound
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ammessi	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
agevolate	agevolato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	parataxis
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
ottengono	ottenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
assolta	assolto	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rigenera	rigenera	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
renderne	rendere ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
facile	facile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elusivo	elusivo	ADJ	A	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
maggiore	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammissione	ammissione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	nmod
agevolato	agevolato	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizza	utilizza	NOUN	S	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fabbricazioni	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
clandestine	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
miscelazioni	miscelazione	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzate	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurata	commisurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ultimati	ultimato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
potuti	potere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

e	e	CCONJ	CC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
rigenerati	rigenerare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	A	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
esitati	esitare	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
denaturati	denaturato	VERB	V	acl
rinvenuti	rinvenere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	nmod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
configura	configurare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
configura	configurare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	amod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
assenza	assenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
emissione	emissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
risultanti	risultante	NOUN	S	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
veritieri	veritiere	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
validazione	validazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
codice	codice	NOUN	A	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
causa	causa	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mancata	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
76	76	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
83	83	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottratti	sottratti	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20¸	20¸	NUM	N	conj
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	N	nsubj
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
capo	capo	NOUN	S	appos
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
circostanze	circostanza	NOUN	S	obj
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
definito	definire	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obl
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	conj
convenzionali	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sottratti	sottratto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
massimo	massimo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
30.000	30.000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
condotta	condotta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gravità	gravità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
adoperando	adoperira	VERB	V	advcl
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranee	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ipotesi	ipotesi	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
40-bis	40-bis	NUM	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	conj
diretti	diretto	ADJ	V	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impunità	impunità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
faccia	fare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
armi	arma	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
accerti	accertare	VERB	V	conj
averle	avere lo	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
possedute	posseduta	NOUN	S	obj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
dopo	dopo	ADV	B	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sorpreso	sorprendere	VERB	V	advcl
insieme	insieme	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
tali	tale	PRON	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
frapporre	frapporre	VERB	V	advcl
ostacolo	ostacolo	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
connesso	connettere	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fede	fede	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contro	contro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
caratteristiche	caratteristica	NOUN	S	obl
omologate	omologato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alterazioni	alterazione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
idonee	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
ostacolare	ostacolare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
intervento	intervento	NOUN	S	obj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
provocare	provocare	VERB	V	conj
pericolo	pericolo	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
incolumità	incolumità	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
società	società	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
capitali	capitale	NOUN	S	conj
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvalso	avvalso	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obl
finanziarie	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
Convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
riciclaggio	riciclaggio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricerca	ricerca	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proventi	provento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
Strasburgo	Strasburgo	PROPN	SP	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
8	8	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ratificata	ratificare	VERB	V	advcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
resa	rendere	VERB	V	conj
esecutiva	esecutivo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
328	328	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stipulato	stipulare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ratificato	ratificare	VERB	V	conj
convenzioni	convenzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Italia	Italia	PROPN	SP	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
delitto	delitto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrabbando	contrabbando	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40-quater	40-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
attenuanti	attenuante	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
40-bis	40-bis	NUM	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
diminuite	diminuire	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autore	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
adopera	adoperare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
evitare	evitare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delittuosa	delittuoso	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
portata	portare	VERB	V	ccomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
conseguenze	conseguenza	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
aiutando	aiutare	VERB	V	advcl
concretamente	concretamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
decisivi	decisivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricostruzione	ricostruzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cattura	cattura	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autori	autore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40-quinquies	40-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Vendita	vendita	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzate	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	conj
vende	vendere	VERB	V	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
pone	porre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	V	obj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	xcomp
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obj
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
acquista	acquistare	VERB	V	ROOT
tabacchi	tabacco	VERB	V	obj
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	V	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
terzo	terzo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	obj
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
arresto	arresto	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammenda	ammenda	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
40-sexies	40-sexies	NUM	N	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ulteriori	Ulteriori	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
contestata	contestare	VERB	V	ROOT
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
titolari	titolare	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
coadiuvanti	coadiuvante	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dipendenti	dipendente	NOUN	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
detenzione	detenzione	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	conj
speciali	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nsubj
abusiva	abusivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organo	organo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riscontrata	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
contestazione	contestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
avvenga	avvenire	VERB	V	advcl
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Contro	contro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT
ricorso	ricorso	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sospensione	sospensione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
chiusura	chiusura	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
41	41	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

37	37	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
38	38	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
42	42	NUM	N	conj
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
birra	birra	NOUN	S	flat
1924	1924	NUM	N	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
fabbrica	fabbricare	VERB	V	ROOT
clandestinamente	clandestinamente	ADV	B	advmod
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7746	7746	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commisurata	commisurare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
ultimati	ultimato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sarebbero	essere	AUX	VA	aux
potuti	potere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	obl
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
attesa	attesa	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
esistenti	esistere	VERB	V	conj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
quella	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
eseguita	eseguire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
previamente	previamente	ADV	B	advmod
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
costruiti	costruire	VERB	V	conj
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
possa	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottratto	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
la	il	DET	RD	det
caldaia	caldaia	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
recipiente	recipiente	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
raccolta	raccolta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
flemme	flemma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
scaldavino	scaldavino	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
deflemmatore	deflemmatore	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
refrigerante	refrigerante	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
provata	provare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sola	solo	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
locale	locale	NOUN	A	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	conj
attigui	attiguo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcune	alcuno	PRON	PI	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
occorrenti	occorrente	NOUN	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stati	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	advcl
all	all	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	obl
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	parataxis
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
esistano	esistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soli	solo	ADJ	A	amod
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	nsubj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
contemporanea	contemporaneo	ADJ	A	amod
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1549	1549	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
costruisce	costruire	VERB	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vende	vendere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
dà	dare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
parte	parte	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esso	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
averlo	avere lo	AUX	VA_PC	aux
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
denunciato	denunciare	VERB	V	advcl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
42	42	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
38-bis	38-bis	PROPN	SP	dep
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
associano	associare	VERB	V	advcl
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
fabbricare	fabbricare	VERB	V	acl
clandestinamente	clandestinamente	ADV	B	advmod
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punita	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
43	43	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spriti	sprire	VERB	V	parataxis
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
23/1933	23/1933	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1200/1948	1200/1948	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
417	417	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
birra	birra	NOUN	S	flat:name
1924	1924	NUM	N	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
7746	7746	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sottrae	sottrae	VERB	S	xcomp
con	con	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	amod
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	ROOT
alcole	alcole	ADJ	S	obj
denaturato	denaturare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	lo	PRON	PC	obj
destina	destinare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
pena	pena	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
consumato	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodoti	prodoto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
effettuate	effettuare	ADJ	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
giustificato	giustificato	ADJ	A	nmod
motivo	motivo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
tempi	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
dichiarati	dichiarare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavoro	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
configura	configurare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessa	commessare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
privato	privare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
concessa	concedere	ADJ	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prescritte	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
né	né	CCONJ	CC	cc
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
50.000	50.000	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44	44	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	flat:name
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
birra	birra	NOUN	S	flat
1924	1924	NUM	N	flat
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
23	23	NUM	N	conj
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
334	334	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1939	1939	NUM	N	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Confisca	Confisca	PROPN	SP	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
materie	materia	NOUN	S	appos
prime	primo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
commettere	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
43	43	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
parti	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
444	444	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
delitti	delitto	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Capo	Capo	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
ordinata	ordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
appartengano	appartenere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
estranea	estraneo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	advcl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	csubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
giudice	giudice	NOUN	S	nsubj
ordina	ordinare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
utilità	utilità	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disponibilità	disponibilità	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
interposta	interposta	ADJ	A	amod
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
profitto	profitto	NOUN	S	appos
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
parte	parte	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
impegna	impegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erario	erario	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sequestro	sequestro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
mancato	mancato	ADJ	A	amod
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
diffida	diffido	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
contribuente	contribuente	NOUN	S	obl
inadempiente	inadempiente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
sempre	sempre	ADV	B	advmod
disposta	disposto	ADJ	A	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44-bis	44-bis	DET	DD	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrati	sequestrato	VERB	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
confiscati	confiscare	VERB	V	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
iscritti	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
navi	nave	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
natanti	natanto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
sequestrati	sequestrare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
contrasto	contrasto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	ROOT
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl:agent
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
giudiziale	giudiziale	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
facciano	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
affidati	affidare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
finalità	finalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
giustizia	giustizia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
protezione	protezione	NOUN	S	conj
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
ambientale	ambientale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oneri	onere	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
assicurazione	assicurazione	NOUN	S	conj
obbligatoria	obbligatorio	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
natanti	natanto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comando	comando	NOUN	V	conj
usuario	usuario	ADJ	S	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
beni	bene	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	acl
dallo	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assegnati	assegnare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
hanno	avere	AUX	VA	aux
avuto	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7	7	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
8	8	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
punite	punire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
competente	competente	ADJ	A	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
adottati	adottare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
territorialmente	territorialmente	ADV	B	advmod
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
44-ter	44-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Custodia	Custodia	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distruzione	distruzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
campionatura	campionatura	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cose	cosa	NOUN	S	nmod
sequestrate	sequestrato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
confiscate	confiscato	ADJ	A	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fermo	fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	fixed
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
44-bis	44-bis	PROPN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
compatibili	compatibile	ADJ	A	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
118	118	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
45	45	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spinti	spingere	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Circostanze	circostanze	NOUN	S	nmod
aggravanti	aggravante	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
reati	reato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
41	41	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
43	43	NUM	N	conj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commessi	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mezzo	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
corruzione	corruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
concorre	concorrere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
multa	multa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
esclude	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1941	1941	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1383	1383	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
46	46	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alterazione	alterazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
prodotto	produrre	VERB	V	xcomp
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
contraffà	contraffà	VERB	V_PC	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altera	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rimuove	rimuova	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
guasta	guasta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rende	rendere	VERB	V	conj
inservibili	inservibile	ADJ	A	amod
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bolli	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punzoni	punzone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
fa	fare	VERB	V	parataxis
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bolli	bollo	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punzoni	punzone	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
marchi	marchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
altre	altro	ADJ	DI	amod
impronte	impronta	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
apposti	apporre	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterati	alterare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
detiene	detenere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigilli	sigillo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bolli	bollo	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
punzoni	punzone	NOUN	S	conj
identici	identico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
contraffatti	contraffatto	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	N	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
commesso	commettere	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl:agent
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concorso	concorrere	VERB	V	advcl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
abbia	avere	AUX	VA	aux
agevolato	agevolare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	obj
omettendo	omettere	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
cautele	cautela	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
custodia	custodia	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	conj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1549	1549	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ove	ove	ADV	B	mark
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguita	conseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
evasione	evasione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
resta	restare	VERB	V	parataxis
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicabilità	applicabilità	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
43	43	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
47	47	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

304	304	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
305	305	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
308	308	NUM	N	conj
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1973	1973	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Deficienze	Deficienza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
deficienze	deficienza	NOUN	S	obl
riscontrate	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calo	calo	NOUN	S	obl
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
triplo	triplo	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
denaturati	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
eccede	eccedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calo	calo	NOUN	S	obl
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
commisurata	commisurato	ADJ	A	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
elevata	elevato	VERB	V	acl
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	advmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	V	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
5.000	5.000	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
10.000	10.000	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	advcl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calo	calo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
denaturati	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
rientranti	rientrare	VERB	V	amod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tolleranze	tolleranza	NOUN	S	nmod
ammesse	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
giustificate	giustificare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
deficienze	deficienza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cali	calo	NOUN	S	obl
ammessi	ammesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riscontrate	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
arrivo	arrivo	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decimo	decimo	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intero	intero	ADJ	A	amod
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
calo	calo	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Amministrazione	Amministrazione	PROPN	SP	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
abbia	avere	VERB	V	ccomp
motivi	motivo	NOUN	S	obj
fondati	fondato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
ritenere	ritenere	VERB	V	xcomp
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuta	avvenire	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
frode	frode	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	conj
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
qual	quale	PRON	DQ	amod
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicata	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riguardo	riguardo	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
intera	intero	ADJ	A	amod
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
deficienza	deficienza	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
entità	entità	NOUN	S	advcl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calo	calo	NOUN	S	nmod
consentito	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
assunte	assunte	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
aplicano	aplicare	VERB	V	ROOT
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
mancante	mancante	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
andato	andare	AUX	VA	aux:pass
perduto	perdere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
irrimediabilmente	irrimediabilmente	ADV	B	advmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distrutto	distruggere	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
87	87	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
differenze	differenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esportazione	esportazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ottenere	ottenere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20¸commi	20¸comma	NUM	N	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	A	advmod
restituita	restituire	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
48	48	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
23-bis	23-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
334/1939	334/1939	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

10	10	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1971	1971	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1161	1161	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6-bis	6-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
16/1993	16/1993	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
561	561	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Irregolarità	Irregolarità	NOUN	S	ROOT
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
apparecchio	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1032	1032	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
5164	5164	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
di	di	ADP	E	fixed
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
verificazione	verificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riscontrano	riscontrare	VERB	V	advcl
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rispetto	rispetto	ADP	E	case
alle	a il	DET	E_RD	det
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
giustificate	giustificare	VERB	V	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	A	obl
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
aggiunta	aggiunta	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tributo	tributo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3098	3098	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
riscontrata	riscontrato	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
rapportato	rapportare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obl
estratta	estratto	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
929	929	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
fa	fare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alcun	alcuno	DET	DI	det
addebito	addebito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
eccedenze	eccedenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riscontrante	riscontrante	ADV	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
estratta	estratto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
liberi	libero	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nmod
rapportato	rapportare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	obl
registrate	registrare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
contatore	contatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
totalizzatore	totalizzatore	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
automatica	automatico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
consegna	consegna	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
agevolati	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
formalità	formalità	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritte	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1549	1549	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
apporta	apportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescritgere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ll	Ll	NOUN	S	dep
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
16/1993	16/1993	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	compound
23	23	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
49	49	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

45	45	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
61	61	NUM	N	conj
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	ROOT
spiriti	spirire	VERB	V	acl
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

15	15	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
legge	legge	NOUN	S	ROOT
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	conj
561	561	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevolati	agevolato	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	V	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
detta	detta	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
documento	documento	NOUN	S	conj
falso	falso	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
alterato	alterato	ADJ	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
consente	consentire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
individuare	individuare	VERB	V	ccomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
interessati	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazione	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
trasportata	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
presumono	presumere	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
illecita	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dimostrata	dimostrare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
legittima	legittimo	ADJ	A	amod
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
assolvimento	assolvimento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3098	3098	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	advmod
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
cali	calo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
trasportati	trasportato	ADJ	A	amod
differiscano	differiscare	VERB	V	advcl
quantitativamente	quantitativamente	ADV	B	advmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
risultanti	risultante	VERB	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl
informatizzato	informatizzato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
accompagnano	accompagnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
più	più	ADV	B	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
calo	calo	NOUN	S	dep
ammesso	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
doganali	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	acl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
predisposizione	predisposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	PRON	PI	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasportatore	trasportatore	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esegue	eseguire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	obj
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasferimenti	trasferimento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
venga	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
dimostrazione	dimostrazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
presunzione	presunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
reato	reato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	ADJ	A	amod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
irregolarità	irregolarità	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentato	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tali	tale	ADJ	DD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	acl:relcl
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
50	50	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
regolamenti	regolamento	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
infrazioni	infrazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
irregolare	irregolare	ADJ	A	amod
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
prescritti	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
omessa	omessa	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tardiva	tardivo	ADJ	A	conj
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
denuncie	denuncie	NOUN	S	conj
prescritte	prescritto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	xcomp
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
giacenze	giacenza	NOUN	S	nmod
reali	reale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
risultanze	risultanza	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cali	calo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdite	perdita	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
stradale	stradale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nsubj
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	compound
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
dodicesimo	dodicesimo	ADJ	NO	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
calo	calo	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riferito	riferire	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
erogazioni	erogazione	NOUN	S	obl
effettuate	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considera	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	xcomp
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registro	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
scarico	scarico	NOUN	S	conj
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
differenza	differenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
supera	superare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
assunte	assure	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chiunque	chiunque	PRON	PI	obl
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescritta	prescritta	NOUN	S	obl
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	amod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ostacola	ostacolo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualunque	qualunque	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
militari	militare	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tessera	tessera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
trasformati	trasformare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
custoditi	custodire	VERB	V	conj
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvo	salvo	ADV	B	mark
che	che	SCONJ	CS	fixed
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
dopo	dopo	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
sanzionatori	sanzionatore	NOUN	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tentativo	tentativo	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
estratto	estratto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ancorché	ancorché	ADV	B	mark
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agevolati	agevolato	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
51	51	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

22	22	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
23	23	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Obbligazione	obbligazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
civile	civile	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
inflitta	infliggere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	obl
dipendente	dipendente	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
capo	capo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
vettore	vettore	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
pecuniaria	pecuniario	ADJ	A	amod
inflitta	inflitto	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
condannato	condannato	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
persona	persona	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
lui	lui	PRON	PE	obl
dipendente	dipendere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
risulti	risulto	NOUN	V	conj
insolvibile	insolvibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammistrazioni	ammistrazione	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	obl
II	II	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ENERGIA	ENERGIA	PROPN	S	nmod
ELETTRICA	ELETTRICA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2716	2716	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatore	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	il	DET	RD	det
vigenti	vigente	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposta	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
azionati	azionare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumata	consumare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
aeromobili	aeromobile	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoveicoli	autoveicolio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
bordo	bordo	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	obl
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
gli	il	DET	RD	det
accumulatori	accumulatore	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
quella	quello	PRON	PD	conj
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
elettrogeni	elettrogeno	ADJ	A	amod
mobili	mobile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
corpi	corpo	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	obl
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl
elettrogeni	elettrogeno	ADJ	A	amod
azionati	azionare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
biomassa	biomassa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
biomassa	biomassa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
piccoli	piccolo	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
generatori	generatore	ADJ	A	amod
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
azionati	azionare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obj
nominale	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obl
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
gruppi	gruppo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
elettrogeni	elettrogeno	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obj
nominale	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
principalmente	principalmente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	obl
chimica	chimico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	conj
elettrolitici	elettrolitico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
metallurgici	metallurgico	ADJ	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	obl
mineralogici	mineralogico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
costo	costo	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
unità	unità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
incida	incidere	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
50	50	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	V	cop
esente	esente	ADJ	A	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
elettricità	elettricità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
mantenere	mantenere	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
produrre	produrre	VERB	V	acl
elettricità	elettricità	NOUN	S	obj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
generazione	generazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
asservita	asservire	VERB	V	advcl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connessione	connessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obl
connesse	connere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
azionati	azionare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
consumata	consumare	VERB	V	advcl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
sito	sito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
ferroviarie	ferroviario	ADJ	A	amod
adibite	adibire	VERB	S	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
passeggeri	passeggero	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
linee	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
urbano	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
interurbano	interurbare	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
consumata	consumare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
residenza	residenza	NOUN	S	nmod
anagrafica	anagrafico	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
impegnata	impegnare	VERB	V	acl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	chiloWhetro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
utenze	utenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1,5	1,5	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
riducendo	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
rientranti	rientrante	VERB	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chilowattora	chilowattora	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
limite	limite	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
utenze	utenza	NOUN	S	nmod
oltre	oltre	ADP	E	case
1,5	1,5	NUM	N	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
procede	procedere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
riducendo	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
rientranti	rientrante	VERB	V	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglia	soglia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
150	150	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	chiloWhetro	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
chilowattora	chilowattora	NOUN	S	nmod
corrispondenti	corrispondere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
limite	limite	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerato	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
uso	uso	NOUN	S	xcomp
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
contestuale	contestuale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
distinte	distinto	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	obj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sottoposizione	sottoposizione	NOUN	S	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
53	53	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Soggetti	Soggetti	PROPN	SP	nmod
obbligati	obbligato	ADJ	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rivalsa	rivalsa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
fatturano	fatturare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
designate	designare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	DET	DI	det
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	ADJ	SP	flat:name
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
società	società	NOUN	S	nsubj
designate	designato	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
registrarsi	registrare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
officine	officina	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrico	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
detta	detto	ADJ	A	amod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riconosciuti	riconoscere	VERB	V	ROOT
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	xcomp
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
energia	energia	NOUN	S	appos
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
conversione	conversione	NOUN	S	conj
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
effettuata	effettuato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
due	due	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
abbiano	avere	VERB	V	advcl
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obj
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
nello	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	advcl
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzata	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
ricarica	ricarica	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accumulatori	accumulatore	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
trazione	trazione	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricarica	ricarica	NOUN	S	nmod
accessibili	accessibile	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Rilascio	Rilascio	NOUN	S	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
denunciano	denunciare	VERB	V	conj
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
propria	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
15	15	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
annua	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
completezza	completezza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
officine	officine	NOUN	S	obj
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obj
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
verifica	verifica	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
azionate	azionare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
fonti	fonte	NOUN	S	obl:agent
rinnovabili	rinnovabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det
riconducibili	riconducibile	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
successivamente	successivamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
atti	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
documentali	documentale	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
specifica	specifico	ADJ	V	xcomp
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	Non	ADV	BN	advmod
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esonerati	esonerare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obj
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
negata	negare	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previo	previo	ADJ	A	amod
contraddittorio	contraddittorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abilitati	abilitare	VERB	V	ccomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
80	80	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
abilitazione	abilitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cui	cui	DET	DR	det:poss
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pronunciata	pronunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
irrevocabile	irrevocabile	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
condanna	condanna	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sentenza	sentenza	NOUN	S	conj
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
procedura	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
reati	reato	NOUN	S	obl
connessi	connesso	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
pena	pena	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reclusione	reclusione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	obj
societarie	societario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
direzione	direzione	NOUN	S	obl
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambiente	ambiente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
energetica	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
scambiano	scambiare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rispettiva	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
autorizzati	autorizzare	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stata	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ARERA	ARERA	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sentita	sentire	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definisce	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tempistiche	tempistica	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
messa	messa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
aggregati	aggregato	VERB	V	acl
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
attribuiti	attribuire	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Sistema	sistema	NOUN	S	obl:agent
informatico	informatico	ADJ	A	amod
integrato	integrato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
13	13	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
trasmessi	trasmettere	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
volumi	volume	NOUN	S	obl
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
messi	mettere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
sicuro	sicuro	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
automatico	automatico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
svolgimento	svolgimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
compiti	compito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
economico	economico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
54	54	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
533/1932	533/1932	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerata	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
officina	officina	NOUN	S	xcomp
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparati	apparato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
accumulazione	accumulazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparati	apparato	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accumulazione	accumulazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
collocati	collocare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
distinti	distinti	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparati	apparato	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pur	pure	ADV	B	mark
se	se	SCONJ	CS	fixed
ubicati	ubicare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Costituiscono	Costituiscono	VERB	V	advcl
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obj
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
distinte	distinto	ADJ	V	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	obl
distinti	distinti	VERB	V_PC	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	PRON	PE	nmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
unica	unico	ADJ	A	amod
stazione	stazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
officine	officina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
elettriche	elettrica	ADJ	A	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
acquirenti	acquirente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	mark
farne	fare ne	VERB	V_PC	advcl
rivendita	rivendita	NOUN	S	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
insieme	insieme	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conduttori	conduttore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
accumulazione	accumulazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
venditrice	venditrice	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
da	da	ADP	E	mark
considerare	considerare	VERB	V	ccomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obl
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gli	il	DET	RD	det
apparati	apparato	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
accumulazione	accumulazione	NOUN	S	conj
montati	montare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
prova	prova	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
apparecchiature	apparecchiatura	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
autorizzare	autorizzare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
attivazione	attivazione	NOUN	S	conj
ordinaria	ordinario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esperimenti	esperimento	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
533/1932	533/1932	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
regio	regio	NOUN	S	obj
decretolegge	decretolegge	NOUN	S	compound
19	19	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1932	1932	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
533	533	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1932	1932	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1859	1859	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
55	55	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Accertamento	accertamento	PROPN	SP	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
necessari	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
debito	debito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
semestri	semestro	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
riportano	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riportano	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ammontare	ammontare	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	conj
emesse	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	V	amod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
versano	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
rate	rato	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	nmod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
versare	versare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
complessivamente	complessivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
emesse	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
rata	rata	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
proprio	proprio	ADJ	B	det:poss
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Entro	Entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
eventuale	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
determinato	determinare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	advcl
somme	somma	NOUN	S	obj
versate	versare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
eccedenza	eccedenza	NOUN	S	obl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dovuto	dovuto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	PRON	PD	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
detratte	detratre	VERB	V	ROOT
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
versamenti	versamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
fino	fino	ADP	E	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
completo	completo	NOUN	A	obl
esaurimento	esaurimento	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
richieste	richiedere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
rimborso	rimborso	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
intercorrente	intercorrente	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
procedono	procede	VERB	V	acl:relcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatturazione	fatturazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
ceduta	ceduto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versano	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
acconti	acconte	NOUN	S	nsubj
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
iniziano	iniziare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
consumare	consumare	VERB	V	xcomp
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versando	versare	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
acconto	acconto	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
comunicati	comunicare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	S	obl:agent
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	obl
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
importi	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
versati	versare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riportati	riportare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
conguaglio	conguaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
semestre	semestra	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
riporta	riportare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
conformemente	conformemente	ADV	B	advmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ARERA	ARERA	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	nmod
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	amod
calcolato	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utenze	utenza	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	appos
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applica	applico	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatore	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finale	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
differenti	differente	ADJ	A	amod
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
utilizzano	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
unici	unicio	ADJ	A	amod
agevolati	agevolato	ADJ	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	appos
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adeguano	adeguare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trimestre	trimestre	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
aritmetica	aritmetico	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dandone	dandone	NOUN	S	obl
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	compound
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
suo	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
acquisiti	acquisire	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
escussione	escussione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
antecedenti	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
escussione	escussione	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
versato	versare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
superi	superare	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
netto	netto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
eventualmente	eventualmente	ADV	B	advmod
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
iscritto	iscrivere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ruolo	ruolo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
escussa	escusso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nsubj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versata	versare	VERB	V	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
rideterminato	rideterminare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
permane	permanere	VERB	V	conj
invariato	invariare	VERB	V	xcomp
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
fatturati	fatturato	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
precedente	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
suddivisi	suddividere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definiti	definire	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
modello	modello	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
semestrale	semestrale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
specifici	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modelli	modello	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottata	adottare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
scambio	scambio	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
informazioni	informazione	NOUN	S	nmod
inerenti	inerente	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
aggregati	aggregare	VERB	V	acl
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatture	fattura	NOUN	S	obl
emesse	emesso	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessioni	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
56	56	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Particolari	Particolari	PROPN	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	conj
officine	officina	NOUN	S	compound
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
fornite	fornito	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misuratori	misuratore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	conj
integratori	integratore	NOUN	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
consumata	consumato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
officine	officina	NOUN	S	compound
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
costituite	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
calore	calore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
100	100	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
corrispondere	corrispondere	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
canoni	canone	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obl
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
forniture	fornitura	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
cottimo	cottimo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
corrispondono	corrispondere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obl
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
installata	installare	VERB	V	acl
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
presente	presente	ADJ	A	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
riscontrati	riscontrato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
versano	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
canone	canone	NOUN	S	obj
annuo	annuo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
abbonamento	abbonamento	NOUN	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stipula	stipula	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
convenzione	convenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
anni	anno	NOUN	S	dep
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anticipatamente	anticipatamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
comportano	comportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
preso	prendere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
canone	canone	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sua	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
luogo	luogo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
restituzione	restituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
versata	versare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
corso	corso	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
56-bis	56-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
vettoriamento	vettoriamento	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
danno	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
una	uno	DET	RI	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	appos
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
riepilogativa	riepilogativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenente	contenere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
trasportata	trasportato	ADJ	V	acl
rilevati	rilevato	VERB	S	obj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stazioni	stazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
trasportata	trasportare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
rendono	rendere	VERB	V	ROOT
disponibili	disponibile	ADJ	A	xcomp
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
consegnata	consegnare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	obl
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	xcomp
tempestivamente	tempestivamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
interessato	interessato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
sottratti	sottratti	VERB	V	acl
fraudolentemente	fraudolentemente	ADV	B	advmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
terzi	terzo	NOUN	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
appena	appena	ADV	B	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fraudolenti	fraudolento	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertati	accertare	VERB	V	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Contestualmente	contestualmente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
avvio	avvio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
officina	officina	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
d	d	NOUN	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
dà	dare	VERB	V	ROOT
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
caratteristici	caratterisote	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	previsto	VERB	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
escluso	escludere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diverso	diverso	PRON	PI	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercita	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
officina	officina	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collegata	collegare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
avente	avere	VERB	V	conj
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obj
disponibile	disponibile	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
produce	produrre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
attribuisce	attribuire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
identificativo	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazioni	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
comunicano	comunicare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ceduta	ceduto	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasmissione	trasmissione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
solare	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedente	precedente	ADJ	V	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dichiarano	dichiarare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	obl
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	conj
societarie	societario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
eventi	evento	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
verificati	verificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	Art.	NOUN	S	dep
56-ter	56-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
53	53	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
54	54	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
55	55	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
56	56	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
56-bis	56-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
concerne	concernere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
definizione	definizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
autoproduzione	autoproduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
denuncia	denuncia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53-bis	53-bis	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	obj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
calcolo	calcolo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
indicare	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
emesse	emesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	nmod
promiscuo	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark
prevedere	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cessazione	cessazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
conseguente	conseguente	ADJ	A	amod
svincolo	svincolo	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
57	57	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Privilegi	Privilegi	PROPN	SP	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

.	.	PUNCT	FS	ROOT



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
ha	avere	VERB	VA	ROOT
privilegio	privilegio	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
preferenza	preferenza	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
somme	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
dovute	dovere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
recupero	recupero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
avvenuto	avvenire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nsubj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
comportamenti	comportamento	NOUN	S	nmod
omissivi	omissivo	ADJ	A	amod
la	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nmod
opera	operare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scoperta	scoperta	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nmod
illecito	illecito	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
prescrizione	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
interrotta	interrotta	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
constatata	constatare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ricomincia	ricomincia	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
diventa	diventare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
definitivo	definitivo	ADJ	A	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
conclude	concludere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obj
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativo	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
intrapreso	intraprendere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
accertata	accertato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
58	58	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
9	9	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
11	11	NUM	N	conj
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Poteri	potere	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prescrivere	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
esercitano	esercitare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
acquisto	acquisto	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
spese	spesa	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
strumenti	strumento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
rilevare	rilevare	VERB	V	csubj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
prodotta	produrre	VERB	V	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
erogata	erogare	VERB	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
suggelli	suggello	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bolli	bollo	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
apparecchi	apparecchio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
guasti	guasto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
verificatisi	verificatidere	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatti	fare	VERB	V	conj
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	ccomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
immediatamente	immediatamente	ADV	B	advmod
denunciati	denunciare	VERB	V	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
così	così	ADV	B	advmod
pure	pure	ADV	B	advmod
le	il	DET	RD	det
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	ROOT
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
circuiti	circuito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
tali	tale	DET	DD	det
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
muniti	munito	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
tessera	tessera	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
1929	1929	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
verificare	verificare	VERB	V	acl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
controllare	controllare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	CCONJ	CC	case
di	di	ADP	E	case
notte	notte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
centrali	centrale	NOUN	S	dep
elettriche	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cabine	cabina	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
linee	linea	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
reti	rete	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
fissi	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	conj
dove	dove	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consumata	consumare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prendere	prendere	VERB	V	ROOT
visione	visione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
attinenti	attinente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
riscontrare	riscontrare	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
andamento	andamento	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
suoi	suo	DET	AP	det:poss
rapporti	rapporto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Essi	esso	PRON	PE	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	nmod
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
spettacoli	spettacolo	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
finchè	finchè	PROPN	SP	nsubj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aperti	aprire	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
libero	libero	ADJ	A	amod
percorso	percorso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
mezzi	mezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
urbano	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
linea	linea	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

I	il	DET	RD	det
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nsubj
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
eseguire	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	xcomp
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
finchè	finché	PRON	CS	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
aperti	aprire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fondati	fondato	NOUN	A	amod
sospetti	sospetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
precedere	precedere	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ufficiali	ufficiale	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
ambito	ambito	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
visite	visita	NOUN	S	obl
domiciliari	domiciliare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	nsubj
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
officine	officine	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	mark
ad	a	ADP	E	fixed
avere	avere	VERB	V	acl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
i	il	DET	RD	det
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contratti	contratre	NOUN	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
gratuitamente	gratuitamente	ADV	B	advmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aiuto	aiuto	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
personale	personale	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
questi	questo	PRON	PD	nsubj
compiono	compiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
officina	officina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
azienda	azienda	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
presso	presso	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
tutti	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
gli	il	DET	RD	det
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
enti	ente	NOUN	S	conj
privati	privato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblici	pubblico	ADJ	A	conj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esibire	esibire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
originali	originale	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	conj
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
contratti	contratto	NOUN	S	obl
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	conj
fornitrici	fornitore	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
queste	questo	DET	DD	det
ultime	ultime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
siano	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
riservate	riservare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	mark
far	fare	VERB	V	acl
procedere	procedere	VERB	V	ccomp
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
impiegati	impiegato	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
avrà	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
avvalersi	avvalere si	VERB	V_PC	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
personale	personale	NOUN	S	advcl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
addetto	addetto	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
opportune	opportuno	ADJ	A	amod
verifiche	verifico	ADJ	A	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Guardia	Guardia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
finanza	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esercitati	esercitare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
espletamento	espletamento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell	dell	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
59	59	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Sanzioni	sanzioni	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
1924	1924	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	obj
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
562	562	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pene	pena	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
fatti	fatto	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
reato	reato	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
puniti	punire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
tentato	tentare	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
evadere	evadere	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
attivano	attivare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
officina	officina	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	cop
provvisti	provvista	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
manomettono	manomettere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
lasciano	lasciare	VERB	V	conj
manomettere	manomettere	VERB	S	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	obj
applicati	applicato	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatti	fare	VERB	V	conj
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
bolli	bollo	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
suggelli	suggello	NOUN	S	conj
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
detto	detto	ADJ	A	amod
ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
salvi	salvo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
assoluta	assoluto	NOUN	S	nmod
necessita	necessita	VERB	V	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
omettono	omettire	VERB	V	advcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
redigono	redigere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
incompleto	incompleto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
inesatto	inesatto	ADJ	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
55	55	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
tengono	tengere	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tengono	tengere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
irregolare	irregolare	VERB	V	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
registrazioni	registrazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
55	55	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
registri	registro	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
bollette	bolletta	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
norma	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	conj
incomplete	incomplete	ADJ	A	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
infedeli	infedelare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
denunce	denuncia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
negano	negare	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
ostacolano	ostacolare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immediato	immediato	ADJ	A	amod
ingresso	ingresso	NOUN	S	obj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
addetti	addetto	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
officine	officina	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	conj
annessi	annesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
impediscono	impedire	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
essi	esso	PRON	PE	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attribuzioni	attribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
utente	utente	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
altera	alterare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
congegni	congegno	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
manomette	manometta	NOUN	S	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
suggelli	suggello	NOUN	S	obj
applicati	applicare	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionari	funzionario	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
53	53	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
misurazione	misurazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscontro	riscontro	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
destina	destinare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
ammessa	ammettere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
sottrae	sottraere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
tenta	tentare	VERB	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
sottrarre	sottrarre	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	appos
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	amod
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	obl
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
utenti	utente	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
portante	portante	ADJ	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
indebitamente	indebitamente	ADJ	B	advmod
riscossa	riscosso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
minimo	minimo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
bolletta	bolletta	NOUN	S	nmod
infedele	infedelo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
somma	somma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
denaro	denaro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
500	500	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
3.000	3.000	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
60	60	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Addizionali	Addizionali	PROPN	SP	appos
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
valgono	valere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
addizionali	addizionale	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
stesse	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------------	----------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
61	61	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

29	29	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
32	32	NUM	N	conj
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	ROOT
generali	generale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
imposizioni	imposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indirette	indiretto	ADJ	A	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
titoli	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
I	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
II	secondo	ADJ	NO	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
fiammiferi	fiammifere	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	conj
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mercato	mercato	NOUN	S	obl
interno	interno	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
esigibile	esigibile	ADJ	A	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
vigente	vigere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	VERB	V	parataxis
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prima	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diretti	diretto	NOUN	S	conj
utilizzatori	utilizzatore	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	conj
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
ditte	ditta	NOUN	S	conj
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
rivendita	rivendita	NOUN	S	obj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merce	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
acquirente	acquirente	NOUN	S	nmod
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considera	considerare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
venditore	venditore	NOUN	S	nmod
residente	residente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
privati	privato	NOUN	A	nmod
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	compound
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
agiscono	agire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
impresa	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
arte	arte	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
professione	professione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	paese	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultano	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
mancanti	mancante	ADV	B	obj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
verifiche	verificho	ADJ	A	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
possibile	possibile	ADJ	A	conj
accertare	accertare	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
regolare	regolare	ADJ	A	obj
esito	esito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
constatazione	constatazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
muniti	munire	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ufficio	Ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	conj
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
giacente	giacente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dati	dato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
richiesti	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	nsubj
obbligato	obbligato	VERB	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	iobj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
rifensce	rifenre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
termini	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazioni	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermo	fermo	ADJ	A	conj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dilazionato	dilazionare	VERB	V	ccomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
g	g	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tardivi	tardivo	NOUN	S	obl
pagamenti	pagamento	NOUN	S	acl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
indennità	indennità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
mora	mora	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
interessi	interesse	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
sesto	sesto	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
facoltà	facoltà	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
esonerare	esonerare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obj
affidabili	affidabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
notoria	notorio	ADJ	A	amod
solvibilità	solvibilità	NOUN	S	conj
esercenti	esercento	ADJ	A	amod
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
obbligo	obbligo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
prestare	prestare	VERB	V	acl
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Tale	tale	DET	DD	det
esonero	esonero	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocato	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
mutino	mutare	VERB	S	acl:relcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ne	ne	PRON	PC	iobj
avevano	avere	AUX	VA	aux
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	obj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	conj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
notifica	notifica	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inosservanza	inosservanza	NOUN	S	nsubj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	nmod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
estrazione	estrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	E	mark
richiamato	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
indipendentemente	indipendentemente	ADV	B	advmod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
azione	azione	NOUN	S	obl
penale	penale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comporta	comportare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	compound
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
d	d	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
costituiscono	costituire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
confisca	confisca	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj
sottratta	sottratto	ADJ	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
200	200	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
doppio	doppio	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decuplo	decuplo	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	A	nmod
evasa	evasa	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
516	516	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
penalità	penalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
da	da	ADP	E	case
45	45	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
51	51	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
riferibili	riferibile	ADJ	A	amod
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
III	III	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	nmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
tardiva	tardivo	ADJ	A	amod
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
altra	altro	ADJ	A	amod
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
258	258	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1549	1549	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62-quater	62-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
62-quater.1	62-quater.1	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
62-quater.2	62-quater.2	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
62-quinquies	62-quinquies	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nsubj
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assimilata	assimilare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	obl
sospensivo	sospensivo	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
acquistati	acquistare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estero	estero	NOUN	S	obl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
privati	privato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
trasportati	trasportato	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
corresponsione	corresponsione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PUNCT	FF	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
62	62	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Imposizione	Imposizione	NOUN	SP	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	SP	compound
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	NOUN	S	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
81	81	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
2710	2710	NUM	N	nummod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
99	99	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
usati	usato	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
minerale	minerale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sintetica	sinteticare	ADJ	A	conj
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	punct
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
messi	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
carburazione	carburazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
carburanti	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
funzione	funzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
lubrificazione	lubrificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2713	2713	NUM	N	nummod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	obj
greggi	gregge	ADJ	A	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2709	2709	NUM	N	flat:name
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
estratti	estratto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
aromatici	aromatico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2713	2713	NUM	N	flat:name
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alchilbenzoli	alchilbenzolo	NOUN	A	nmod
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3817	3817	NUM	N	flat:name
00	00	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
polimeri	polimere	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
poliolefinici	poliolefinico	ADJ	A	amod
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3902	3902	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	NOUN	S	obl
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
messi	mettere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
usati	usare	VERB	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
lubrificazione	lubrificazione	NOUN	S	obl
meccanica	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	xcomp
di	di	ADP	E	case
alchilbenzoli	alchilbenzolo	NOUN	A	nmod
sintetici	sintetico	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
miscugli	miscuglio	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	nmod
archilarilici	archilarilico	ADJ	A	amod
aventi	avere	VERB	V	acl
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
una	uno	DET	RI	det
catena	catena	NOUN	S	obj
alchilica	alchilico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
otto	otto	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	ADV	B	advmod
atomi	atome	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carbonio	carbonio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
alchilazione	alchilazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzolo	benzolo	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
procedimento	procedimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
sintesi	sintesi	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
liquide	liquida	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
15°	15°	ADJ	NO	amod
Celsius	Celsius	PROPN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
impurezze	impurezzo	ADJ	A	xcomp
purché	purché	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
in	in	ADP	E	case
volume	volume	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
quantitativo	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispettive	rispettivo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazioni	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
3403	3403	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
definitivamente	definitivamente	ADV	B	advmod
importati	importare	VERB	V	acl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membri	membro	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	amod
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
esenti	esente	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegata	allegare	VERB	V	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	obl
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pannelli	pannello	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
genere	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
manufatti	manufatto	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
edilizia	edilizia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
cementifici	cementifico	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	obl
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	amod
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
gomma	gomma	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sintetica	sintetico	ADJ	A	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
manufatti	manufatto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
plastiche	plastico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
resine	resina	NOUN	S	conj
artificiali	artificiale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
sintetiche	sintetico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
colle	collo	ADP	E_RD	case
adesive	adesiva	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
antiparassitari	antiparassitario	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
piante	pianta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
congiuntamente	congiuntamente	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	obl
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
durante	durante	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
processo	processo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
usati	usato	ADJ	A	amod
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
invece	invece	ADV	B	advmod
agli	a il	DET	E_RD	det
oli	olio	NOUN	S	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	obl
usati	usato	ADJ	A	acl
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
contenuti	contenuto	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
residui	residuo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rigenerazione	rigenerazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	A	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	amod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
bitumi	bitume	NOUN	S	conj
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
25	25	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
inventari	inventare	NOUN	S	nmod
periodici	periodico	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
giacenze	giacenza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscalmente	fiscalmente	ADJ	A	amod
rilevanti	rilevante	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contabilità	contabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
aggregata	aggregato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl
tributario	tributario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
possono	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	conj
omogenei	omogeneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	NUM	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	DI	conj
decreti	decreto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62-quater	62-quater	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Imposta	Imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
succedanei	succedaneo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
liquide	liquido	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
219	219	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cinque	cinque	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	nmod
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
venti	venti	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quindici	quindici	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sedici	sedici	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
undici	undici	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	nmod
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
diciassette	diciassette	NUM	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2026	2026	NUM	N	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADJ	B	advmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
equivalente	equivalente	ADJ	A	obl
quantitativo	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
rilevato	rilevare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
apposite	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
procedure	procedura	NOUN	S	nmod
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
definite	definire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
ragione	ragione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
necessario	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aspirazione	aspirazione	NOUN	S	nmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
analisi	analisi	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	nmod
composto	comporre	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
almeno	almeno	ADV	B	advmod
dieci	dieci	NUM	N	nummod
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sette	sette	NUM	N	nummod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	conj
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	det
gradazioni	gradazione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
tre	tre	NUM	N	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
watt	watt	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rideterminata	rideterminato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2018	2018	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
119	119	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod
CON	CON	PROPN	SP	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2018	2018	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
136	136	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
71	71	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1-ter	1-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dichiara	dichiarare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
della	di il	DET	E_RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
confezioni	confezione	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
campione	campione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
singolo	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
assoggettata	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
confronti	confronto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
siano	essere	AUX	V	cop
in	in	ADP	E	case
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52)(72	52)(72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
modi	modo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
di	di	ADP	E	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	advmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
tutto	tutto	DET	T	det:predet
il	il	DET	RD	det
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
giacente	giacente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
tempo	tempo	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentata	presentare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvertenze	avvertenza	NOUN	S	conj
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	obl
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3-ter	3-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
tipologie	tipologia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
avvertenza	avvertenza	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
lingua	lingua	NOUN	S	obl
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-bis	3-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
definite	definire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
regole	regola	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
tecniche	tecnico	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
effettuano	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	obl
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
eccezione	eccezione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	nmod
meccanici	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comprese	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
parti	parte	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricambio	ricambio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ferme	ferma	VERB	A	parataxis
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
38	38	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottato	adottare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
98	98	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
distribuzione	distribuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
disciplinati	disciplinato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
liquide	liquido	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevalenza	prevalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dispositivi	dispositivo	NOUN	S	conj
meccanici	meccanico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
elettronici	elettronico	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazionere	VERB	V	ROOT
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
canali	canale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
generi	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
monopolio	monopolio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5-ter	5-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gestiscono	gestisce	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	appos
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
durata	durare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52)(72	52)(72	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
perdita	perdita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	conj
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
venuta	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposta	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
revoca	revoca	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
57	57	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nummod
millilitri	millilitro	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
millilitro	millilitro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	V	ROOT
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
contengano	contengare	VERB	V	ccomp
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
sia	essere	CCONJ	V	parataxis
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
la	lo	PRON	PC	obj
contengano	contengare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	conj
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
85	85	NUM	N	nummod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nsubj
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nummod
millilitri	millilitro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto.(72	prodotto.(72	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-bis.1	7-bis.1	PROPN	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	dep
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nummod
millilitri	millilitro	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
millilitro	millilitro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	obl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nsubj
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nummod
millilitri	millilitro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	ADJ	A	amod
sia	essere	AUX	V	acl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
contenga	conterre	VERB	V	ccomp
nicotina	nicotino	NOUN	S	obj
sia	essere	CCONJ	V	advcl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
contenga	contenga	NOUN	S	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-quater	40-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis.2	7-bis.2	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-quinquies	40-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
descritte	descrivere	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
0,2	0,2	NUM	N	nummod
millilitri	millilitro	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
millilitro	millilitro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis.3	7-bis.3	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	A	amod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-sexies	40-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44-bis	44-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
44-ter	44-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-ter	7-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
utilizzabili	utilizzabile	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	mark
ricaricare	ricaricare	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
sigaretta	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
elettronica	elettronico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ove	ove	SCONJ	CS	case
vaporizzabili	vaporizzabile	ADJ	A	obl
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
miscelazione	miscelazione	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-quater	7-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
privi	privo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
vaporizzabili	vaporizzabile	ADJ	A	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
come	come	ADP	E	case
componenti	componente	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscela	miscela	NOUN	S	nmod
liquida	liquidare	VERB	V	nsubj:pass
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	xcomp
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vaporizzazione	vaporizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
volti	volgere	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
conferire	conferire	VERB	V	xcomp
un	uno	DET	RI	det
odore	odore	NOUN	S	obj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
un	uno	DET	RI	det
gusto	gusto	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
liquidi	liquido	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quella	quello	PRON	PD	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
liquidi	liquido	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-quinquies	7-quinquies	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
un	uno	DET	RI	det
congruo	congruo	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7-quater	7-quater	NUM	N	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
risultino	risultare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
conformi	conforme	ADJ	A	xcomp
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetto	ADJ	S	amod
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	nmod
detenute	detenuto	NOUN	S	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
produttori	produttore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
distributori	distributore	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
sei	sei	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
decorrenti	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
smaltimento	smaltimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
scorte	scorta	NOUN	S	nmod
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
generi	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
monopolio	monopolio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
vicinato	vicinato	NOUN	S	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
124	124	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	A	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62-quater.1	62-quater.1	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Imposta	Imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
contengono	contenere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	DET	T	amod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl:agent
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
sottoposti	sottoporre	NOUN	S	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	conj
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
preparati	preparato	NOUN	S	conj
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
consentire	consentire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
assorbimento	assorbimento	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
sostanza	sostanza	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
organismo	organismo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	obl
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
chilogrammo	chilogrammo	AUX	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusi	escludere	VERB	V	conj
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	obj
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
219	219	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
tiene	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
presenti	presentare	VERB	V	advcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	appos
cedente	cedere	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
avente	avere	VERB	V	acl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
effettuare	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fabbricare	fabbricare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	SP	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fabbricare	fabbricare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
cedente	cedere	VERB	V	advmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	SP	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
saranno	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	obl
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
generalità	generalità	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
legale	legale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
saranno	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
effettuati	effettuare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
controlli	controllo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
competenza	competenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attribuendo	attribuere	VERB	V	advcl
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	xcomp
il	il	DET	RD	det
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascun	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cauzioni	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giacenza	giacenza	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
corrispondente	corrispondere	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
perdano	perdare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	PRON	PI	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
più	più	DET	B	conj
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
diversi	diverso	DET	DI	nmod
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
importatori	importatore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obl
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nsubj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	nsubj
chiedono	chiedere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetta	predetta	NOUN	S	nmod
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
indicando	indicare	VERB	V	advcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuti	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	obj
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
cedente	cedere	VERB	V	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
intendono	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
immettere	immettere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-bis	9-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	NOUN	S	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
ricevere	ricevere	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
effettua	effettuare	VERB	V	advcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
successiva	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mentre	mentre	SCONJ	CS	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
importati	importare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl:agent
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
la	il	DET	RD	det
predetta	predetto	NOUN	S	amod
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	advcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9-ter	9-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
mittente	mittente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tenuto	tenere	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
fornire	fornire	VERB	V	xcomp
garanzia	garanzia	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
gravante	gravante	ADV	B	advmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
spediti	spedire	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
100	100	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prevalenza	prevalenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
escluse	escludere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
unitamente	unitamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62-quater	62-quater	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
effettiva	effettivo	ADJ	A	amod
capacità	capacità	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	mark
garantire	garantire	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
divieto	divieto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
discriminazione	discriminazionere	VERB	V	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
canali	canale	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
presenza	presenza	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
generi	genere	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
monopolio	monopolio	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13-bis	13-bis	PROPN	SP	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	dep
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
gestiscono	gestisce	VERB	V	acl:relcl
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	mark
vicinato	vicinare	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
farmacie	farmacia	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
parafarmacie	parafarmacie	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
durata	durare	VERB	V	ROOT
pari	pari	ADJ	A	xcomp
a	a	ADP	E	case
quattro	quattro	NUM	N	nummod
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
possibilità	possibilità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
rinnovo	rinnovo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
more	more	NOUN	S	ROOT
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prosecuzione	prosecuzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
85	85	NUM	N	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	dep
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lordo	lordo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

PERIODO	PERIODO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	X	NO	nmod
D.LGS	D.LGS	NOUN	S	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

26	26	NUM	N	nummod
SETTEMBRE	SETTEMBRE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
2024	2024	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	conj
141	141	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15-bis	15-bis	NOUN	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lordo	lordo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-quater	40-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15-ter	15-ter	NUM	S	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-quinquies	40-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
descritte	descrivere	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lordo	lordo	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
peso	peso	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
eventuali	eventuale	ADJ	A	amod
involucri	involucro	NOUN	S	nmod
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15-quater	15-quater	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-sexies	40-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44-bis	44-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44-ter	44-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
50	50	NUM	N	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
conformità	conformità	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
vigenti	vigente	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	obl
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
ulteriori	ulteriore	ADJ	A	amod
prescrizioni	prescrizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
necessarie	necessario	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
quali	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
movimentati	movimentare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	obl
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	X	X	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62-quater.2	62-quater.2	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prodotti	Prodotti	NOUN	SP	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
solide	solido	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
da	da	ADP	E	case
inalazione	inalazione	NOUN	S	nmod
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
costituiti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
sostanze	sostanza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
solide	solido	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
nicotina	nicotina	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	nmod
come	come	ADP	E	case
medicinali	medicinale	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
219	219	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39-terdecies	39-terdecies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
bis	bis	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rispetto	rispetto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
rideterminata	rideterminato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazione	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
medio	medio	ADJ	A	amod
ponderato	ponderato	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
fabbricante	fabbricante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	ROOT
cedente	cedente	ADJ	V	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
adempie	adempiere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
uno	uno	DET	RI	det
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
direttamente	direttamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	dep
cedente	cedente	ADV	B	advcl
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
cedente	cedente	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	NOUN	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importatore	importatore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzati	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
realizzati	realizzare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
introdotti	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
presentano	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	obl
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
indicano	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oltre	oltre	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obl
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
ubicazione	ubicazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
fabbricare	fabbricare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
introdurre	introdurre	VERB	V	conj
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
realizzare	realizzare	VERB	V	xcomp
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
immettere	immettere	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
designato	designare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
cedente	cedente	ADJ	B	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	nmod
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
cedente	cedere	ADJ	B	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	appos
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
immettere	immettere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
preventivamente	preventivamente	ADV	B	advmod
autorizzato	autorizzare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nsubj
presenta	presentare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	obl
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
forma	forma	NOUN	S	nmod
telematica	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
indica	indicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
propri	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
dati	dato	NOUN	S	obj
identificativi	identificativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
gestione	gestione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	acl
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
immettere	immettere	VERB	V	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
quantità	quantità	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	conj
informativi	informativo	ADJ	A	amod
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
206	206	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prestano	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
mediamente	mediamente	ADV	B	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
giacenza	giacenza	NOUN	S	conj
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
comunque	comunque	ADV	B	advmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
presta	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
media	media	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
a	a	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dodici	dodici	NUM	N	nummod
mesi	mese	NOUN	S	nmod
solari	solare	ADJ	A	amod
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cauzioni	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prestate	prestare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
348	348	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
verificata	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
idoneità	idoneità	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rilascia	rilasciare	VERB	V	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
sessanta	sessanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
ricorrano	ricorrere	VERB	V	conj
le	il	DET	RD	det
condizioni	condizione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	V	acl
attribuendo	attribuere	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	ADJ	A	obl
istante	istante	NOUN	S	advmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
violazione	violazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquidazione	liquidazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
decade	decadere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
autorizzati	autorizzato	ADJ	A	amod
perdano	perdare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
possesso	possesso	NOUN	S	obj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nmod
soggettivi	soggettivo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
venga	venire	VERB	V	conj
meno	meno	ADV	B	advmod
la	il	DET	RD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

9	9	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
a	a	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
elementi	elemento	NOUN	S	nmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	obl
mensile	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
presentare	presentare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
quello	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
la	il	DET	RD	det
dichiarazione	dichiarazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Entro	entro	ADP	E	case
lo	il	DET	RD	det
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
versamento	versamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
dovuta	dovuto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

10	10	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Paesi	Paesi	NOUN	S	obl
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
accertata	accertare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
riscossa	riscottere	VERB	V	conj
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	obl:agent
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
confine	confine	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
destinati	destinare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
essere	essere	AUX	V	cop
immessi	immesso	ADJ	A	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
inseriti	inserire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
specifica	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
denominazione	denominazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
solo	solo	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentita	consentire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
verifica	verificare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	ROOT
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
definitiva	definitivo	ADJ	A	amod
importazione	importazione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
provenienti	provenire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
Stati	stato	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
appartenenti	appartenere	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	obl
europea	Europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

13	13	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
requisiti	requisito	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
12	12	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
10	10	NUM	N	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
offerta	offerta	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
tutela	tutela	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
minori	minore	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggetta	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	advmod
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

14	14	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
trasferimento	trasferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
consentito	consentire	VERB	V	ROOT
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

15	15	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
appositi	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
condizionamenti	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

16	16	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
esclusiva	esclusivo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
transfrontaliera	transfrontaliero	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

17	17	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
62-quater	62-quater	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7-bis.1	7-bis.1	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
7-bis.2	7-bis.2	PROPN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7-bis.3	7-bis.3	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
utilizzando	utilizzare	VERB	V	advcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
medesimi	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
equivalenza	equivalenza	NOUN	S	nmod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
previsti	previsto	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

18	18	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazioni	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
adottate	adottare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
novanta	novanta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
previsioni	previsione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
istanza	istanza	NOUN	S	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
5	5	NUM	N	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
contenuto	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
approvvigionamento	approvvigionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
legittimazione	legittimazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
tenuta	tenuta	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
registri	registro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
documenti	documento	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
attuative	attuativo	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzioni	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accompagnamento	accompagnamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
fase	fase	NOUN	S	nmod
antecedente	antecedente	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
immissione	immissione	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
62-quinquies	62-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Imposta	Imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
accessori	accessorio	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
cartine	cartina	NOUN	S	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
cartine	cartina	NOUN	S	conj
arrotolate	arrotolato	ADJ	A	acl
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
filtri	filtro	NOUN	S	conj
funzionali	funzionale	ADJ	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,0036	0,0036	PROPN	S	nmod
il	il	DET	RD	det
pezzo	pezzo	NOUN	S	nsubj
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	S	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	DET	DI	det
confezione	confezione	NOUN	S	obl
destinata	destinare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
legittimata	legittimare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
stessi	stesso	PRON	PD	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
apposita	apposito	ADJ	A	amod
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	obl
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	obl
esclusivamente	esclusivamente	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
tramite	tramite	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1957	1957	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1293	1293	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuta	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	obl:agent
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	conj
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
rappresentante	rappresentante	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
produttore	produttore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
fornitore	fornitore	NOUN	S	conj
estero	estero	ADJ	S	compound
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
atto	atto	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rivendite	rivendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
39-decies	39-decies	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
disciplinati	disciplinare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
presentazione	presentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
contenuti	contenuto	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
richiesta	richiesta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
inserimento	inserimento	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabelle	tabella	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
commercializzazione	commercializzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuna	ciascuno	PRON	PI	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
categorie	categoria	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
gli	il	DET	RD	det
obblighi	obbligo	NOUN	S	conj
contabili	contabile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrativi	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

6	6	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

È	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
vietata	vietare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
a	a	ADP	E	case
distanza	distanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
transfrontaliera	transfrontaliero	NOUN	S	appos
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumatori	consumatore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
acquistano	acquistare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fermi	fermo	ADJ	A	amod
i	il	DET	RD	det
poteri	potere	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
polizia	polizia	NOUN	S	conj
giudiziaria	giudiziario	ADJ	A	amod
ove	ove	SCONJ	B	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
fatto	fatto	NOUN	S	nsubj
costituisca	costituire	VERB	V	advcl
reato	reato	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comunica	comunico	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fornitori	fornitore	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
connettività	connettività	NOUN	S	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
rete	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gestori	gestore	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reti	rete	NOUN	S	nmod
telematiche	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazione	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
operatori	operatore	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
esse	esso	PRON	PE	nmod
forniscono	fornire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	obj
telematici	telematico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
telecomunicazione	telecomunicazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
i	il	DET	RD	det
siti	sito	NOUN	S	appos
web	web	NOUN	S	compound
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quali	quale	PRON	PR	obl
inibire	inibire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accesso	accesso	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
attraverso	attraverso	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
reti	rete	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
offerenti	offerente	NOUN	S	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
84	84	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
85	85	NUM	N	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
complementari	complementare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	nmod
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
3	3	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	dep
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-bis	7-bis	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fuori	fuori	ADV	B	case
dai	da il	DET	E_RD	det
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
costituenti	costituire	VERB	V	acl
fattispecie	fattispecie	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
sottrazione	sottrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-bis	40-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2	2	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
40-ter	40-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
medesime	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
trova	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
40-quater	40-quater	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

7-ter	7-ter	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-quinquies	40-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
condotte	condotta	NOUN	S	nsubj
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
descritte	descrivere	ADJ	A	amod
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
oggetto	oggetto	NOUN	S	obl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
criterio	criterio	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
quale	quale	PRON	PR	nmod
un	uno	DET	RI	det
grammo	grammo	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
convenzionale	convenzionale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
lavorato	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
equivale	equivale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	cc
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soglie	soglia	NOUN	S	nmod
quantitative	quantitativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
grammi	grammo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7-quater	7-quater	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
40-sexies	40-sexies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44	44	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
44-bis	44-bis	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
44-ter	44-ter	PROPN	SP	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TITOLO	TITOLO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
IV	IV	ADJ	NO	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DISPOSIZIONI	DISPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DIVERSE	DIVERSE	PROPN	SP	amod
E	E	CCONJ	CC	cc
FINALI	FINALI	PROPN	A	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
63	63	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
spiriti	spirito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
birra	birra	NOUN	S	compound
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvati	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
D.M.	D.M.	PROPN	SP	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1924	1924	NUM	N	flat
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
23/1933	23/1933	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
334/1939	334/1939	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	conj
H	H	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.Lgt	D.L.Lgt	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

26	26	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1945	1945	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
223	223	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
707/1949	707/1949	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
50/1950	50/1950	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	X	punct
*	*	X	X	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
D.P.C.M.	D.P.C.M.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Licenze	Licenze	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	conj
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciate	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall	dall	ADP	E_RD	case
'	'	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Ufficio	ufficio	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
competente	competente	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
territorio	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
dell'	di il	DET	E_RD	det
inizio	inizio	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferiscono	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
hanno	avere	VERB	V	conj
validità	validità	NOUN	S	obj
illimitata	illimitato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fatte	Fatte	VERB	V	advcl
salve	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
tributi	tributo	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	mark
vengono	venire	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
mancare	mancare	VERB	V	xcomp
i	il	DET	RD	det
presupposti	presupposta	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
fabbriche	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lavorazione	lavorazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	conj
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
258,23	258,23	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
fermentate	fermentare	ADJ	A	amod
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103,29	103,29	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	PC	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
petroliferi	petrolifero	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
già	già	ADV	B	advmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
petroliferi	petrolifero	ADJ	A	amod
denaturati	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51,64	51,64	NUM	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	S	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
su	su	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
forfettaria	forfettario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasformazione	trasformazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
condizionamento	condizionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
denaturato	denaturato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assoggettato	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
esente	esente	ADJ	A	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
51,64	51,64	NUM	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esercizi	esercizio	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
33,57	33,57	NUM	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
obbligati	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
disciplinata	disciplinare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
dovuto	dovere	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciali	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposizione	imposizione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
relativa	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
custodiscono	custodiscere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
soggetti	soggetto	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	obl
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
691	691	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
786	786	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
settore	settore	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
licenze	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
soggette	soggetto	ADJ	A	ROOT
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pagamento	pagamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguente	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
officine	officina	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cabine	cabina	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
punti	punto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
proprio	proprio	DET	AP	det:poss
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
solo	solo	ADJ	A	amod
stabilimento	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ditta	ditta	NOUN	S	nmod
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	compound
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
officine	officine	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquirenti	acquirente	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
rivendono	rivendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
blocco	blocco	NOUN	S	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obj
prodotta	prodotto	ADJ	A	amod
od	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
acquistata	acquistato	ADJ	A	conj
ad	a	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	det
fabbricanti	fabbricante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
23,24	23,24	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
officine	officine	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cabine	cabina	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
punti	punto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
presa	presa	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
77,47	77,47	NUM	N	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	advcl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
versato	versare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	amod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	obl:agent
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
16	16	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
precede	precedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
quello	quello	PRON	PD	obj
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
costituzione	costituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
cambiano	cambiare	VERB	V	conj
titolare	titolare	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prima	prima	ADV	B	case
del	di il	DET	E_RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
esercente	esercente	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
versa	versare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
stabilito	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
punito	punire	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
sanzione	sanzione	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
una	uno	PRON	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tre	tre	NUM	N	nummod
volte	volta	NOUN	S	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nmod
stesso	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
annuale	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
sicurezza	sicurezza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
regio	regio	NOUN	S	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
18	18	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1931	1931	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
773	773	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
può	potere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rilasciata	rilasciare	VERB	V	ROOT
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
rinnovata	rinnovare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
chi	chi	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
condannato	condannare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
fabbricazione	fabbricazione	NOUN	S	obl
clandestina	clandestino	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
reati	reato	NOUN	S	conj
previsti	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
bevande	bevanda	NOUN	S	conj
alcoliche	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
707/1949	707/1949	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1949	1949	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
707	707	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1949	1949	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
870	870	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	X	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
50/1950	50/1950	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1950	1950	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1950	1950	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-----------------	-----------------	PROPN	SP	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
64	64	NUM	N	nummod



	


	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
1200/1948	1200/1948	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Prestazione	Prestazione	PROPN	SP	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
prescritta	prescrivere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
rilascio	rilascio	NOUN	S	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
esercizio	esercizio	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
impianto	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
subordinati	subordinare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
adempimento	adempimento	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
occorra	occorra	VERB	V	aux
adeguare	adeguare	VERB	V	advcl
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nsubj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
vi	vi	PRON	PC	iobj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
momento	momento	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
la	il	DET	RD	det
stessa	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
risulta	risulta	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
idonea	idoneo	ADJ	A	amod
oppure	oppure	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
specifico	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
riguardanti	riguardare	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
tale	tale	DET	DD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
il	il	DET	RD	det
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	A	nsubj
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	ADJ	A	conj
ridetermina	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
lo	il	DET	RD	det
comunica	comunica	NOUN	S	conj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
soggetto	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
obbligato	obbligare	VERB	V	acl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
provvede	provvedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	obl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
ricevimento	ricevimento	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comunicazione	comunicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	conj
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
revocata	revocare	VERB	V	ROOT
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
predetti	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
trenta	trenta	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
occorre	occorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
adeguamento	adeguamento	NOUN	S	obj
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cauzione	cauzione	NOUN	S	nmod
prestata	prestato	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

)	)	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
65	65	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Adeguamenti	Adeguamenti	PROPN	SP	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
normativa	normativa	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttive	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
europea	europea	ADJ	A	amod
in	in	ADP	E	case
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
dispongono	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nmod
recepite	recepire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
427	427	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
adeguamenti	adeguamento	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aliquote	aliquote	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
organi	organo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
comunitari	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fissazione	fissazione	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
livello	livello	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
minime	minimo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
mantenimento	mantenimento	NOUN	S	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
reale	reale	ADJ	A	amod
sia	sia	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	mark
tener	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
variazioni	variazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ECU	ECU	PROPN	SP	nmod
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
alla	a il	DET	E_RD	det
valuta	valuta	NOUN	S	obl
nazionale	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
recepite	recepire	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
via	via	NOUN	S	obl
amministrativa	amministrativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
su	su	ADP	E	case
proposta	proposta	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
previa	previo	ADJ	A	amod
deliberazione	deliberazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
66	66	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
282/1986	282/1986	NUM	N	nummod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
32	32	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1993	331/1993	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alcoli	alcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
metilico	metilico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
propilico	propilico	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
isopropilico	isopropilico	ADJ	A	conj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alcoli	alcolo	NOUN	S	obl
metilico	metilico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
propilico	propilico	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
isopropilico	isopropilico	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
282	282	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
462	462	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
provenienza	provenienza	NOUN	S	nmod
comunitaria	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	V	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
tal	tale	DET	DD	det
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
assimilati	assimilare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

l'	il	DET	RD	det
assunzione	assunzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
carico	carico	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
prescritti	prescritto	NOUN	S	nmod
registri	registro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
documentazione	documentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
emessa	emettere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
scorta	scorta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
singole	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
partite	partita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	I	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
*	*	PUNCT	FF	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
282/1986	282/1986	NUM	N	nummod
riguarda	riguardare	VERB	V	ROOT
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
282	282	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
462	462	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
67	67	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Norme	norma	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
esecuzione	esecuzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
transitorie	transitorio	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Artt	Artt	PROPN	SP	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	ROOT
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
4	4	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	advcl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
7	7	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
20	20	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	conj
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
331/1994	331/1994	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
64	64	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
spiriti	spirito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
birra	birra	PROPN	SP	flat:name
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
T.U.	T.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
energia	energia	NOUN	S	compound
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
33	33	NUM	N	nummod
R.D.L.	r.D.L.	PROPN	S	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	compound
334/39	334/39	NUM	N	nummod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
25-bis	25-bis	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
271/1957	271/1957	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
D.L.vo	d.L.v io	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1992	1992	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
464	464	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	Ministro	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	ADJ	A	amod
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
accertamento	accertamento	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
contabilizzazione	contabilizzazione	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
depositi	deposito	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscali	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
destinatario	destinatario	NOUN	S	nmod
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
speditore	speditore	NOUN	S	conj
registrato	registrato	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
obbligato	obbligato	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
concessione	concessione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
esenzioni	esenzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
abbuoni	abbuone	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
restituzioni	restituzione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
riconoscimento	riconoscimento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
assoggettabilità	assoggettabilità	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
effettuazione	effettuazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
deposito	deposito	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sottoposti	sottoporre	VERB	V	acl
ad	a	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
cessione	cessione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
contrassegni	contrassegno	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
istituzione	istituzione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
uffici	ufficio	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziari	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
fabbrica	fabbrica	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

In	in	ADP	E	case
attuazione	attuazione	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
carattere	carattere	NOUN	S	nmod
generale	generale	ADJ	A	amod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
impartisce	impartire	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
specifiche	specifico	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
singoli	singolo	ADJ	A	amod
casi	caso	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
emanate	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
norme	norma	NOUN	S	nsubj
regolamentari	regolamentare	ADJ	A	amod
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
quelle	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
cali	calo	NOUN	S	nsubj
ammissibili	ammissibile	ADJ	A	amod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
abbuono	abbuono	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
saranno	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinati	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
determinano	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	obl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
norme	norma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

2	2	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

3	3	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
diritti	diritto	NOUN	S	obl
annuali	annuale	ADJ	A	amod
relativi	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	obl
1996	1996	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
vengono	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
assoggettati	assoggettare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
gli	il	DET	RD	det
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	nsubj
devono	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
denunciare	denunciare	VERB	V	ROOT
la	il	DET	RD	det
loro	loro	DET	AP	det:poss
attività	attività	NOUN	S	obj
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
licenza	licenza	NOUN	S	nmod
deve	dovere	AUX	VM	aux
essere	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
pagato	pagare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1996	1996	NUM	N	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1999	1999	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
esentati	esentare	VERB	V	ROOT
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obl:agent
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
venduti	vendere	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
negozi	negozio	NOUN	S	obl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
controllo	controllo	NOUN	S	obl
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
trasportati	trasportare	VERB	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
consentiti	consentire	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
bagaglio	bagaglio	NOUN	S	nmod
personale	personale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
viaggiatore	viaggiatore	NOUN	S	nmod
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
reca	recare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	obl
membro	membro	NOUN	S	compound
con	con	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
volo	volo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
traversata	traversato	ADJ	A	amod
marittima	marittimo	ADJ	A	amod
intracomunitaria	intracomunitaria	ADJ	A	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

5	5	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
diritto	diritto	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
erariale	erariale	ADJ	A	amod
speciale	speciale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alcoli	alcolo	NOUN	S	nmod
denaturati	denaturare	VERB	VA	acl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1200	1200	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1388	1388	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
soppresso	sopprimere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl:agent
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	nummod
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
331	331	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
29	29	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
427	427	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
osservanza	osservanza	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
61	61	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
vigilanza	vigilanza	NOUN	S	obl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
commercio	commercio	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
materie	materia	NOUN	S	nmod
prime	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
alcoligene	alcoligena	NOUN	S	nsubj
restano	restare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	mark
quanto	quanto	ADV	B	fixed
applicabili	applicabile	ADJ	A	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1952	1952	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1322	1322	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
20	20	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1952	1952	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2384	2384	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fino	fino	ADP	E	mark
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
quando	quando	SCONJ	CS	fixed
la	il	DET	RD	det
materia	materia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sarà	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
regolamentata	regolamentare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
violazioni	violazione	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
predette	predetto	ADJ	A	amod
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

7	7	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
classificazione	classificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
effettuata	effettuare	VERB	V	ROOT
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codici	codico	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	nmod
combinata	combinato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2031/2001	2031/2001	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
modifica	modificare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obj
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
regolamento	regolamento	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CEE	CEE	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
2658/87	2658/87	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1987	1987	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativo	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
nomenclatura	nomenclatura	NOUN	S	obl
tariffaria	tariffario	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
statistica	statistico	ADJ	A	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	conj
doganale	doganale	ADJ	A	amod
comune	comune	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

8	8	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
nuovi	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
adempimenti	adempimente	NOUN	S	nsubj
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sia	essere	AUX	VA	aux
stato	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
un	uno	DET	RI	det
termine	termine	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
diverso	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
eseguiti	eseguire	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
180	180	NUM	N	nummod
giorni	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Art.	articolo	NOUN	S	ROOT
68	68	NUM	N	nummod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
finali	finale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
abrogati	abrogare	VERB	V	ROOT
i	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
legislativi	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
norme	norma	NOUN	S	conj
incompatibili	incompatibile	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
regio	regio	NOUN	S	obl
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	compound
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1937	1937	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1937	1937	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1004	1004	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
regime	regime	NOUN	S	nmod
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
preparazione	preparazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
marsala	marsala	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vermut	vermut	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquori	liquore	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cognac	cognac	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

i	i	ADJ	NO	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	ROOT
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Capo	capo	NOUN	S	nmod
provvisorio	provvisorio	ADJ	A	amod
dello	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Stato	stato	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1947	1947	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
226	226	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
6	6	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1199	1199	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl:agent
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1948	1948	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1387	1387	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1966	1966	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
940	940	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
918	918	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1968	1968	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
1089	1089	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1975	1975	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
391	391	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1981	1981	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
173	173	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
291	291	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1991	1991	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
202	202	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
p	p	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1976	1976	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
249	249	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	conj
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	leggere	NOUN	S	compound
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	S	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
1977	1977	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
contenenti	contenere	VERB	V	acl
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
q	q	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
513	513	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fra	fra	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
altro	altro	PRON	PI	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
disciplina	disciplina	NOUN	S	conj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
liquidi	liquido	NOUN	S	conj
combustibili	combustibile	ADJ	A	amod
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trattamento	trattamento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rifiuti	rifiuto	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
urbani	urbano	ADJ	A	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
r	r	X	X	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
11	11	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
12	12	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
14	14	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
15	15	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
16	16	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
17	17	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
688	688	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
1982	1982	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
873	873	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	vedere	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	obj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
DINI	DINI	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Visto	Visto	VERB	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	appos
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
FANTOZZI	FANTOZZI	PROPN	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ALLEGATO	ALLEGATO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
I	I	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ELENCO	ELENCO	PROPN	S	nmod
PRODOTTI	PRODOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
ASSOGGETTATI	ASSOGGETTATI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
AD	AD	PROPN	SP	nmod
IMPOSIZIONE	IMPOSIZIONE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ED	ED	PROPN	SP	nmod
ALIQUOTE	ALIQUOTE	PROPN	SP	nmod
VIGENTI	VIGENTI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ALLA	ALLA	PROPN	E_RD	case
DATA	DATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
ENTRATA	ENTRATA	PROPN	SP	nmod
IN	IN	PROPN	SP	case
VIGORE	VIGORE	PROPN	SP	nmod
DEL	DEL	ADP	SP	case
TESTO	TESTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
UNICO	UNICO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
PRODOTTI	PRODOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
ENERGETICI	ENERGETICI	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
1.111.490	1.111.490	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
1.003.480	1.003.480	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	SP	ROOT
lampante	lampante	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
cherosene	cherosene	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

usato	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
625.620	625.620	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
415.990	415.990	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oli	oli	PROPN	SP	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
11	11	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17a	17a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17b	17b	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18a	18a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
747.470	747.470	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri;(22)(26)(29	litri;(22)(26)(29	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
747.470	747.470	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
12,8	12,8	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oli	oli	PROPN	A	amod
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	ROOT
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	acl
chimicamente	chimicamente	ADV	B	advmod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	appos
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oli	Oli	PROPN	SP	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

usati	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

ad	a	ADP	E	case
alto	alto	ADJ	A	amod
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
zolfo	zolfo	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ATZ	ATZ	PROPN	SP	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
128,26775	128,26775	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
basso	basso	ADJ	A	amod
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
zolfo	zolfo	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
BTZ	BTZ	PROPN	SP	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	SP	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
64,2421	64,2421	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	ROOT
industriale	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
alto	alto	ADJ	A	amod
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
zolfo	zolfo	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
ATZ	ATZ	PROPN	SP	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
63,75351	63,75351	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	case
basso	basso	ADJ	A	amod
tenore	tenore	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
zolfo	zolfo	NOUN	S	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
BTZ	BTZ	PROPN	SP	nmod
):	):	PUNCT	SP	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
31,38870	31,38870	NUM	SP	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
15,4	15,4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Oli	oli	PROPN	SP	cc
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	ROOT
greggi	gregge	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
naturali	naturale	ADJ	A	conj
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
15,4	15,4	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

usato	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
591.640	591.640	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
26	26	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106)(108	106)(108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
359.220	359.220	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usato	usare	VERB	V	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,70	0,70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	ROOT
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cottura	cottura	NOUN	S	nmod
cibi	cibo	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
acqua	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
calda	caldo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	nmod
T1	T1	PROPN	SP	nmod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
CIP	CIP	PROPN	SP	nmod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	flat:name
37	37	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
86	86	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
individuale	individuale	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
tariffa	tariffa	NOUN	S	obl
T2	T2	PROPN	SP	nmod
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
250	250	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	A	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
151	151	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
altri	altro	ADJ	DI	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	ROOT
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
332	332	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Mezzogiorno	Mezzogiorno	NOUN	S	nmod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
D.P.R.	D.P.R.	PROPN	SP	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
218	218	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
precedenti	precedente	ADJ	A	amod
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	E	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
):	):	PUNCT	FC	punct
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
74	74	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
usi	uso	NOUN	S	ROOT
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mc	mc	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,45	0,45	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubi	cubo	PROPN	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Carbone	Carbone	PROPN	SP	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lignite	lignite	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
coke	Coke	PROPN	SP	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
codici	codico	NOUN	S	conj
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2701	2701	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
2702	2702	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2704	2704	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
impiegati	impiegato	ADJ	A	acl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	nmod
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

15,00	15,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	parataxis
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

12,00	12,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	conj
diretta	diretto	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
indiretta	indiretto	ADJ	A	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

11,8	11,8	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

ALCOLE	ALCOLE	PROPN	SP	ROOT
E	E	CCONJ	SP	cc
BEVANDE	BEVANDE	PROPN	SP	conj
ALCOLICHE	ALCOLICHE	PROPN	SP	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Birra	Birra	PROPN	SP	flat:name
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
1,97	1,97	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	NOUN	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Vino	Vino	NOUN	SP	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Bevande	Bevande	NOUN	S	ROOT
fermentate	fermentare	VERB	A	acl
diverse	diverso	ADJ	A	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
62,33	62,33	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Alcole	alcole	PROPN	SP	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
765,44	765,44	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	nmod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Tabacchi	Tabacchi	PROPN	S	nsubj
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	nmod
23,5	23,5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigaretti	sigaretto	NOUN	S	nsubj
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	conj
49,50	49,50	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
d	d	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
trinciato	trinciare	VERB	V	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
usarsi	usare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
60	60	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
altri	altro	ADJ	A	amod
tabacchi	tabacco	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
56,5	56,5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
f	f	X	X	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
tabacchi	tabaccare	VERB	V	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
fiuto	fiuto	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	mark
masticare	masticare	VERB	V	conj
25,28	25,28	NUM	N	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
ENERGIA	ENERGIA	PROPN	SP	nmod
ELETTRICA	ELETTRICA	ADV	A	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegata	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
):	):	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

lire	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
4,10	4,10	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1.200.000	1.200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
0,0125	0,0125	ADP	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
eccedono	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obj
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.200.000	1.200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
0,0075	0,0075	NOUN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.200.000	1.200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obl
mensili	mensile	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
0,0125	0,0125	ADP	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
kWh	KWh	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
eccedono	eccedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
i	il	DET	RD	det
primi	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
200.000	200.000	NUM	N	nummod
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	obj
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	amod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
mese	mese	NOUN	S	obl
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	conj
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
fissa	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
4.820	4.820	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
fornitura	fornitura	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
erogata	erogare	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
di	di	ADP	E	case
terra	terra	NOUN	S	nmod
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
navi	nave	NOUN	S	obl
ormeggiate	ormeggiare	VERB	V	acl
in	in	ADP	E	case
porto	porto	ADJ	A	obl
dotate	dotato	ADJ	V	acl
di	di	ADP	E	case
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrici	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
installata	installare	ADJ	V	acl
nominale	nominale	ADJ	A	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
kW	KW	PROPN	SP	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
0,0005	0,0005	PROPN	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
kWh	KWh	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
IMPOSIZIONI	IMPOSIZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DIVERSE	DIVERSE	PROPN	A	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Oli	oli	PROPN	A	amod
lubrificanti	Lubrificanti	NOUN	S	ROOT
lire	lira	NOUN	S	xcomp
1.260.000	1.260.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Bitumi	Bitumi	PROPN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
60.000	60.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42a	42a	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42b	42b	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
90.000	90.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
kg	kg	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
riferisce	riferire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
densi	denso	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Le	il	DET	RD	det
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	NOUN	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
densi	denso	NOUN	S	compound
con	con	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
semifluidi	semifluidio	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fluidi	fluido	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fluidissimi	fluidissimo	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
tassate	tassare	VERB	V	ROOT
tenendo	tenere	VERB	V	advcl
conto	conto	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
miscele	miscela	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
secondo	secondo	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
percentuali	percentuale	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
utilizzo	utilizzo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

semifluidi	semifluidio	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

densi	denso	NOUN	S	ROOT
75	75	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
fluidi	fluida	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

densi	denso	NOUN	S	ROOT
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

fluidissimi	fluidissimo	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

densi	denso	NOUN	S	ROOT
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gli	il	DET	RD	det
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	ROOT
densi	densio	NOUN	S	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
viscosità	viscosità	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
V	V	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
C	C	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
centistokes	centistokes	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
considerano	considerare	VERB	V	conj
semifluidi	semifluidio	NOUN	S	xcomp
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
viscosità	viscosità	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
V	V	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
C	C	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
37,4	37,4	NUM	N	obl
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
centistokes	centistokes	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fluidi	fluido	NOUN	S	nmod
se	se	SCONJ	CS	mark
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
viscosità	viscosità	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
V	V	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	nummod
C	C	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	case
21,2	21,2	NUM	N	nummod
a	a	ADP	E	case
37,4	37,4	NUM	N	nummod
centistokes	centistokes	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fluidissimi	fluidissimo	ADJ	A	conj
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	nsubj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
una	uno	DET	RI	det
viscosità	viscosità	NOUN	S	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
V	V	ADJ	NO	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
50	50	NUM	N	dep
C	C	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
21,2	21,2	NUM	N	nummod
centistokes	centistokes	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
alcoli	alcolo	NOUN	S	obl
ottenuti	ottenere	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
distillazione	distillazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vino	vino	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoprodotti	sottoprodotto	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vinificazione	vinificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
patate	patata	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
frutta	frutta	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sorgo	sorgo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fichi	fico	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
carrubbe	careru	ADJ	A	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
cereali	cereale	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
siero	siero	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
permeato	permeato	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
siero	siero	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
latte	latte	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obl
contenuto	contenuto	VERB	V	conj
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
rhum	rhum	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
83.600	83.600	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	obl
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
alcole	alcole	NOUN	S	obl
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
aceto	aceto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
codice	codice	NOUN	S	obl
NC	NC	PROPN	SP	nmod
2209	2209	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	obl
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
temperatura	temperatura	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
Celsius	Celsius	PROPN	SP	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
4	4	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
metà	metà	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
imprese	impresa	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
1990	1990	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
operanti	operare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49)(95	49)(95	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	DET	SP	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	ROOT
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oli	Oli	PROPN	SP	nmod
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	flat:name
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegato	ADJ	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
26	26	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
265	265	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
343	343	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annettere	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
268	268	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
354	354	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5-bis	5-bis	NUM	N	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
nota	nota	NOUN	S	obl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
concernente	concernere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
metodo	metodo	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	nmod
semifluidi	semifluidio	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fluidi	fluido	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fluidissimi	fluidissimo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:impers
intende	intendere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effettuato	effettuare	VERB	V	xcomp
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
olio	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
246	246	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
metano	metano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
40	40	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzatori	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
termoelettrici	termoelettrico	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusi	escludere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.200.000	1.200.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	ROOT

1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
418	418	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	obj
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
metano	metano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	advcl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	nsubj:pass
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
40	40	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
utilizzatori	utilizzatore	NOUN	S	obl
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
termoelettrici	termoelettrico	NOUN	S	nmod
esclusi	escludere	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1.200.000	1.200.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17a	17a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
418	418	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
17b	17b	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
246	246	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
330	330	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
418	418	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
emanato	emanare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
18a	18a	NOUN	S	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
12/10/2001	12/10/2001	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
238	238	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	nmod
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADV	B	ROOT
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	nmod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificato	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
1	1	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
356	356	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
lire	lira	NOUN	S	obl
112.000	112.000	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	flat
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
452	452	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	acl:relcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
soppressione	soppressione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
sotto	sotto	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
voce	voce	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
IMPOSIZIONI	IMPOSIZIONI	PROPN	SP	nmod
DIVERSE	DIVERSE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2002	2002	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
311	311	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
515	515	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2004	2004	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
utilizzato	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
esercenti	esercento	NOUN	S	obl:agent
le	il	DET	RD	det
attività	attività	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	nmod
merci	merce	ADJ	A	amod
con	con	ADP	E	case
veicoli	veicolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
massa	massa	NOUN	S	nmod
massima	massimo	ADJ	A	amod
complessiva	complessivo	ADJ	S	amod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
3,5	3,5	NUM	N	nummod
tonnellate	tonnellata	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
33,21391	33,21391	NUM	N	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
soggetti	soggetto	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
avvalgono	avvalere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
beneficio	beneficio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	conj
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
primo	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	ROOT
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
16,03656	16,03656	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	punct
21	21	NUM	N	flat
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	dep
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
senza	senza	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ccomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
564	564	NUM	N	nummod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
413	413	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
266	266	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
116	116	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
842	842	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
3	3	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
262	262	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
286	286	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
227,77	227,77	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	il	DET	RD	det
citato	citato	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
416,00	416,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	compound
2006	2006	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
296	296	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
329	329	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
metano	metano	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotta	ridurre	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,00291	0,00291	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentata	aumentare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
423,00	423,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
combustione	combustione	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
civili	civile	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,044	0,044	CCONJ	V	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	A	nsubj
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	conj
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,175	0,175	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
4,80	4,80	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	nsubj
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1560	1560	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,170	0,170	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1560	1560	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,186	0,186	PROPN	SP	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	X	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
territori	territorio	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
leggi	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
interventi	intervento	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
Mezzogiorno	Mezzogiorno	NOUN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	PROPN	SP	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	obl
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
1978	1978	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
218	218	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
segue	seguire	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
0,038	0,038	PROPN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
120	120	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	A	nsubj
annui	annuare	VERB	V	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	conj
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,135	0,135	NOUN	V	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
480	480	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	nsubj
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
a	a	ADP	E	fixed
1560	1560	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,120	0,120	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
superiori	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
1560	1560	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	obl
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	amod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,150	0,150	ADJ	SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
35	35	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	DET	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
39	39	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	D.Lgs	NOUN	S	nsubj
31	31	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
compreso	compreso	ADJ	A	amod
tra	tra	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	conj
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-octies	39-octies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	amod
-	-	PUNCT	A	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
elevata	elevare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incidenza	incidenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	flat:name
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
57	57	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
qualora	qualora	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
importo	importo	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-octies	39-octies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	amod
-	-	PUNCT	A	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	advcl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-quinquies	39-quinquies	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2-bis	2-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
risulti	risultare	VERB	V	ROOT
inferiore	inferiore	ADJ	A	xcomp
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	cop
elevata	elevare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
autonoma	autonomo	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Stato	stato	PROPN	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
modo	modo	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
incidenza	incidenza	NOUN	S	nsubj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
globale	globale	ADJ	A	amod
calcolata	calcolare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	obl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
predetto	predetto	NOUN	S	obl
PMP	PMP	PROPN	SP	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	flat:name
sia	essere	AUX	V	cop
pari	pari	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
60	60	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	NOUN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
41	41	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	punct
6	6	NUM	N	punct
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	appos
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	appos
214	214	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
sottoindicate	sottoindicato	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
704,20	704,20	NUM	E_RD	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	ROOT
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
593,20	593,20	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
267,77	267,77	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

d	d	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
0,00331per	0,00331per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	A	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
richiamato	richiamare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
704,70	704,70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
593,70	593,70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
altrsì	altrsì	VERB	V	obj
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumenti	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulle	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzine	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
disposti	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1996	1996	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
662	662	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42	42	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
183	183	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
34	34	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
fissate	fissare	VERB	V	xcomp
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
614,20	614,20	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
473,20	473,20	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	NOUN	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
614,70	614,70	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ad	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
473,70	473,70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
prodotto	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42a	42a	NOUN	S	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
31/12/2011	31/12/2011	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,0227	0,0227	NOUN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
chilowattora	chilowattora	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegata	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
42b	42b	NUM	N	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2011	2011	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
31/12/2011	31/12/2011	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
304	304	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sull'	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
impiegata	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
locali	locale	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
luoghi	luogo	NOUN	S	conj
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
abitazioni	abitazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinata	determinare	VERB	V	ccomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
0,0121	0,0121	PROPN	SP	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
chilowattora	chilowattora	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegata	impiegato	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
la	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
ha	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
46	46	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
9	9	NUM	N	flat:name
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2012	2012	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	NOUN	SP	nmod
16/1/2012	16/1/2012	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabacco	tabacco	NOUN	S	nmod
trinciato	trinciare	ADJ	A	acl
a	a	ADP	E	case
taglio	taglio	NOUN	S	obl
fino	fino	ADV	B	mark
da	da	ADP	E	fixed
usarsi	usare si	VERB	V_PC	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	mark
arrotolare	arrotolare	VERB	V	advcl
le	il	DET	RD	det
sigarette	sigaretta	NOUN	S	obj
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
Tabacchi	Tabacchi	PROPN	SP	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al'	alo	ADV	B	nmod
allegato	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
integrazioni	integrazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux
elevata	elevare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
56,00	56,00	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
58,50	58,50	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
vendita	vendita	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pubblico	pubblico	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	det
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Il	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
ufficiale	ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
47	47	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
91	91	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
112	112	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
sugli	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
oli	olio	NOUN	S	nmod
lubrificanti	lubrificanto	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
787,81	787,81	NUM	N	xcomp
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

-	-	PUNCT	FB	ROOT

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	dep
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Birra	Birra	PROPN	SP	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2,39	2,39	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
69,78	69,78	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alcole	alcole	PROPN	SP	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
814,81	814,81	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	nmod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2015	2015	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Birra	Birra	PROPN	SP	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2,48	2,48	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermedio	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
72,28	72,28	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Alcole	alcole	PROPN	SP	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
844,01	844,01	NUM	N	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	nmod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
-	-	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	obl
direttoriale	direttoriale	ADJ	A	amod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottarsi	adottare si	VERB	V_PC	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
incrementato	incrementare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
il	il	DET	RD	det
prelievo	prelievo	NOUN	S	nsubj
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
fumo	fumo	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
assicurare	assicurare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
50.000.000	50.000.000	NUM	N	nummod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	mark
partire	partire	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	punct
12	12	NUM	N	flat
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
104	104	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
128	128	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
10	10	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2,66	2,66	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermede	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
77,53	77,53	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
905,51	905,51	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	A	amod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
25	25	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	dep
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
seguito	seguito	NOUN	S	nmod
elencati	elencare	VERB	V	acl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
determinate	determinare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	S	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	ROOT
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
l	L	DET	RD	det
°	°	NOUN	S	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	compound
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
birra	birra	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2,70	2,70	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermede	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
78,81	78,81	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
920,31	920,31	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	S	nmod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
birra	birra	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
2,99	2,99	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
alcolici	alcolico	ADJ	A	amod
intermedi	intermede	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
87,28	87,28	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

alcole	alcola	NOUN	S	ROOT
etilico	etilico	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
1019,21	1019,21	NUM	N	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	ADJ	A	amod
anidro	anidro	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
49	49	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2013	2013	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
147	147	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
626	626	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
adottare	adottare	VERB	V	acl
entro	entro	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nmod
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
220	220	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2017	2017	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
a	a	ADP	E	case
199	199	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2018	2018	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	PROPN	SP	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
52	52	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
------------	------------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
56	56	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
718	718	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
719	719	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
700	700	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2018	2018	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl:agent
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2015	2015	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
208	208	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
718	718	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
719	719	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	dep
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2018	2018	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	ROOT
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
66	66	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
232	232	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
48	48	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
3,02	3,02	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

------------	------------	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
13	13	NUM	N	flat:name
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
19/06/2017	19/06/2017	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
140	140	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
39-bis	39-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
indicata	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
fissata	fissare	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
59,1	59,1	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
le	il	DET	RD	det
presenti	presente	ADJ	A	amod
modifiche	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj
decorrono	decorre	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
69	69	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
16	16	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
148	148	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
718	718	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
719	719	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
anno	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
350	350	NUM	N	conj
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ciascuno	ciascuno	PRON	PI	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
anni	anno	NOUN	S	nmod
successivi	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
70	70	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
514	514	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
3,00	3,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl:agent
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
718	718	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Fermo	Fermo	PROPN	SP	nsubj
restando	restare	VERB	V	advcl
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
207	207	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fatta	fare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
salva	salvo	ADJ	A	ccomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	nsubj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
provvedimenti	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nmod
normativi	normativo	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
719	719	NUM	N	nummod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
[	[	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
]	]	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	S	obl
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1º	primo	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttore	direttore	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
piombo	piombo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
aumentate	aumentare	VERB	V	conj
in	in	ADP	E	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
tale	tale	ADJ	PD	amod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
nette	netto	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
inferiori	inferiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
350	350	NUM	N	nummod
milioni	milione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
annui	annuare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
anno	anno	NOUN	S	obl
2020	2020	NUM	N	nummod
il	il	DET	RD	det
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	nsubj
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
efficace	efficace	ADJ	A	conj
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
sito	sito	NOUN	S	nmod
internet	internet	NOUN	S	compound
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Agenzia	Agenzia	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
dogane	dogana	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
monopoli	monopole	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
145	145	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1075	1075	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
I	I	ADJ	NO	compound
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	conj
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Tabacchi	Tabacchi	PROPN	SP	nmod
lavorati	lavorato	ADJ	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
indicate	indicare	VERB	V	acl
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	obl
b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
c	c	NOUN	PC	iobj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
rispettivamente	rispettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
23,5	23,5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
59,5	59,5	NUM	N	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2017	2017	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
205	205	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl:agent
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
145	145	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
514	514	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	obj
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,99	2,99	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------	----------	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
79	79	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2020	2020	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
34-bis	34-bis	PROPN	SP	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	conj
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	dep
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

La	il	DET	RD	det
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	VERB	V	ROOT
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	obj
subordinatamente	subordinatamente	ADV	B	advmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
adozione	adozione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
decisione	decisione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
autorizzi	autorizzo	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
19	19	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
direttiva	direttiva	NOUN	S	nmod
2003/96	2003/96	NUM	A	nummod
/	/	PUNCT	FF	punct
CE	CE	PROPN	SP	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2003	2003	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lo	il	DET	RD	det
Stato	Stato	NOUN	S	appos
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	xcomp
un'	uno	DET	RI	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotta	ridotto	VERB	A	acl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
energia	energia	NOUN	S	obl
elettrica	elettrico	ADJ	A	amod
fornita	fornire	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
impiego	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	NOUN	S	obj
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

4	4	NUM	N	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
efficacia	efficacia	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizione	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
altresì	altresì	ADV	B	advmod
subordinata	subordinare	VERB	V	ROOT
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
autorizzazione	autorizzazione	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
funzionamento	funzionamento	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Unione	Unione	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europea	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
richiesta	richiedere	VERB	S	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	case
cura	cura	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministero	ministero	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
infrastrutture	infrastruttura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporti	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
d'	di	ADP	E	case
intesa	intesa	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
altre	altro	ADJ	A	amod
amministrazioni	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
competenti	competente	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj:pass
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
162	162	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
28	28	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2020	2020	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	obl
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
659	659	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADV	B	dep
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3-sexies	3-sexies	PROPN	A	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
659	659	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2019	2019	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	DET	E_RD	det
sigari	sigario	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
differita	differire	VERB	V	advcl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------	----------	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
234	234	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
986	986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	xcomp
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,94	2,94	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,99	2,99	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------	----------	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	ADP	E	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	amod
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
olio	olio	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
entrata	entrata	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
vigore	vigore	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
trentesimo	trentesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdurare	perdurare	VERB	V	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
8	8	NUM	N	conj
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
b	b	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	advcl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
----------	----------	NOUN	S	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	dep
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
18	18	NUM	N	flat:name
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21/03/2022	21/03/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	advcl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	acl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	conj
greggio	greggio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
trentesimo	trentesimo	ADJ	NO	amod
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesima	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

643,24	643,24	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

532,24	532,24	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61euro	182,61euro	NUM	N	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	ROOT
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
96	96	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
6	6	NUM	N	flat:name
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
16/04/2022	16/04/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fine	fine	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	mark
compensare	compensare	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
maggiori	maggiore	ADJ	A	amod
entrate	entrata	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
valore	valore	NOUN	S	nmod
aggiunto	aggiunto	ADJ	A	acl
rispetto	rispetto	ADV	B	case
all'	a il	DET	E_RD	det
ultima	ultimo	ADJ	A	amod
previsione	previsione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	advcl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aumento	aumento	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzo	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
internazionale	internazionale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
espresso	esprimere	VERB	V	advcl
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	conj
greggio	greggio	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	NOUN	S	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Ha	avere	VERB	VA	aux:pass
inoltre	inoltre	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	appos
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
2	2	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
c	c	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
2	2	NUM	N	obl
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
04/07/2022	04/07/2022	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
2	2	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
19	19	NUM	N	flat:name
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
25/07/2022	25/07/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
21	21	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
9	9	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdurare	perdurare	VERB	V	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
20	20	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	ROOT
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
23	23	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdurare	perdurare	VERB	V	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
4	4	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
18	18	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
15/09/2022	15/09/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
216	216	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
5	5	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoindicati	sottoindicato	NOUN	S	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
13	13	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21/09/2022	21/09/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
17	17	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sottoindicati	sottoindicato	NOUN	S	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	conj
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
19	19	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21/10/2022	21/10/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	advmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
A	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	advcl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
3	3	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	obj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	conj
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	flat:name
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettere	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	X	X	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
b	b	X	X	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
considerazione	considerazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
perdurare	perdurare	VERB	V	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
economici	economico	ADJ	A	amod
derivanti	derivare	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
eccezionale	eccezionale	ADJ	A	amod
incremento	incremento	NOUN	S	obl
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prezzi	prezzo	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	X	S	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
sotto	sotto	ADV	B	advmod
indicati	indicare	VERB	A	amod
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	nmod
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

478,40	478,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
578,40	578,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	oli	ADJ	A	ROOT
da	da	ADP	E	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

367,40	367,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
467,40	467,40	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
usati	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

182,61	182,61	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
216,67	216,67	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
chilogrammi	chilogrammo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

zero	zero	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
metro	metro	NOUN	S	nmod
cubo	cubo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
b	b	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
IVA	IVA	PROPN	SP	nmod
applicata	applicare	ADJ	A	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
autotrazione	autotrazione	NOUN	S	obl
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	ROOT
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misura	misura	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	ROOT


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
114	114	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2021	2021	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
234	234	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
come	come	SCONJ	CS	mark
modificata	modificare	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	obl:agent
29	29	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
198	198	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	advcl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
986	986	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
birra	birra	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	det
annesso	annesso	NOUN	S	appos
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	aux:pass
rideterminata	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,94	2,94	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
31	31	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,97	2,97	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	conj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2024	2024	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
euro	euro	NOUN	S	obl
2,99	2,99	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ettolitro	ettolitro	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
grado-Plato	grado-Plato	VERB	V	conj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

28	28	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2026	2026	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
130	130	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
14	14	NUM	N	flat:name
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
14/5/2025	14/5/2025	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
110	110	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	nmod
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
giorno	giorno	NOUN	S	obl
successivo	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
data	data	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
pubblicazione	pubblicazione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Repubblica	Repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
italiana	italiano	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
applicate	applicare	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
Allegato	Allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	advcl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	amod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	ROOT
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
713,40	713,40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	ROOT
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
632,40	632,40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

TABELLA	TABELLA	PROPN	SP	ROOT

A	A	ADP	E	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
IMPIEGHI	IMPIEGHI	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DEI	DEI	PROPN	SP	det
PRODOTTI	PRODOTTI	PROPN	SP	nmod
ENERGETICI	ENERGETICI	PROPN	SP	nmod

CHE	CHE	SCONJ	SP	nsubj
COMPORTANO	COMPORTANO	PROPN	SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
ESENZIONE	ESENZIONE	PROPN	SP	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
DALL'	DALL'	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ACCISA	ACCISA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
O	O	CCONJ	CC	cc
L'	il	DET	RD	det
APPLICAZIONE	APPLICAZIONE	PROPN	SP	conj
DI	DI	ADP	E	case
UNA	UNA	DET	SP	det
ALIQUOTA	ALIQUOTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
RIDOTTA	RIDOTTA	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
SOTTO	SOTTO	PROPN	SP	case
L'	il	DET	RD	det
OSSERVANZA	OSSERVANZA	PROPN	SP	ROOT
DELLE	DELLE	DET	E_RD	case
NORME	NORME	PROPN	SP	nmod
PRESCRITTE	PRESCRITTE	PROPN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	ROOT
Agevolazione	Agevolazione	NOUN	S	appos

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
--	--	PUNCT	A	punct
--	--	NOUN	S	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	ROOT
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	ADJ	S	obl
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
da	da	ADP	E	case
combustibile	combustibile	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
la	il	DET	RD	det
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
aerea	aereo	ADJ	A	amod
diversa	diverso	ADJ	DI	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
aviazione	aviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
diporto	diporto	ADJ	A	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
i	il	DET	RD	det
voli	volo	NOUN	S	conj
didattici	didattico	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	nmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	ROOT
come	come	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
marine	marino	NOUN	S	amod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
compresa	compreso	VERB	A	conj
la	il	DET	RD	det
pesca	pesca	NOUN	S	obj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
esclusione	esclusione	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	nmod
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
diporto	diporto	NOUN	A	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct
impieghi	impiegare	VERB	V	conj
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
marine	marino	NOUN	S	compound
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
attraversamento	attraversamento	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
quelle	quello	DET	DD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
comunitarie	comunitario	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
diretta	diretta	NOUN	S	obl
destinazione	destinazione	NOUN	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
Paese	paese	NOUN	S	obl
terzo	terzo	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

impieghi	impiegare	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
navigazione	navigazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	obl
interne	interno	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
limitatamente	limitatamente	ADV	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
pesca	pesca	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
dragaggio	dragaggio	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
vie	via	NOUN	S	nmod
navigabili	navigabili	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
porti	porto	NOUN	S	conj
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	obj


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	NUM	N	nummod

NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
GENNAIO	GENNAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	ROOT
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
403,22	403,22	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
mille	mille	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Impieghi	Impieghi	NOUN	S	ROOT
in	in	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	nmod
agricoli	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
orticoli	orticolo	NOUN	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
allevamento	allevamento	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
silvicoltura	silvicoltura	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
piscicoltura	piscicoltura	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
florovivaistica	florovivaistica	NOUN	S	conj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	ROOT
...............................	...............................	PUNCT	FS	punct

30	30	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	nsubj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquota	aliquotere	VERB	V	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	acl
chimicamente	chimicamente	ADJ	A	advmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
...............................	...............................	PUNCT	FS	punct

55	55	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	nsubj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquota	aliquotere	VERB	V	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	dep


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
L'	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
limitata	limitare	VERB	V	conj
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	obl
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
potenza	potenza	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motore	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
CV	CV	PROPN	SP	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
adibite	adibire	VERB	V	conj
a	a	ADP	E	case
lavori	lavoro	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
conto	conto	NOUN	S	nmod
terzi	terzo	ADJ	NO	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

tali	tale	DET	DD	det
limitazioni	limitazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applicano	applicare	VERB	V	ROOT
alle	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
mietitrebbie	mietitrebbia	NOUN	S	obl
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
viene	venire	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
anche	anche	ADV	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
buoni	buono	ADJ	A	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
base	base	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
criteri	criterio	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilito	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
estensione	estensione	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
qualità	qualità	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
colture	coltura	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
dotazione	dotazione	NOUN	S	conj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
effettivamente	effettivamente	ADV	B	advmod
utilizzate	utilizzare	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
concerto	concerto	NOUN	S	conj
con	con	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
risorse	risorsa	NOUN	S	nmod
agricole	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alimentari	alimentare	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
forestali	forestale	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
da	da	ADP	E	mark
emanare	emanare	VERB	V	advcl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
1988	1988	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
400	400	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19a	19a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Prosciugamento	prosciugamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sistemazione	sistemazione	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	nmod
allagati	allagare	VERB	V	acl
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
zone	zona	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
colpite	colpire	VERB	V	acl
da	da	ADP	E	case
alluvione	alluvione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
esenzione	esenzione	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

Sollevamento	sollevamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
acque	acqua	NOUN	S	nmod
allo	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	mark
agevolare	agevolare	VERB	V	acl
la	il	DET	RD	det
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	obj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
fondi	fondo	NOUN	S	nmod
rustici	rustico	ADJ	A	amod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
terreni	terreno	NOUN	S	obl
bonificati	bonificato	ADJ	A	amod
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

Prove	prova	NOUN	S	nsubj
sperimentali	sperimentale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
collaudo	collaudo	NOUN	S	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aviazione	aviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
marina	Marina	PROPN	SP	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
revisione	revisione	NOUN	S	conj
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
aviazione	aviazione	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	nmod
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	obl:agent
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquota	aliquotere	VERB	V	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	xcomp


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
9	9	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
Produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
forza	forza	NOUN	S	nmod
motrice	motrice	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
fissi	fisso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
permanentemente	permanentemente	ADJ	B	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
installati	installare	VERB	V	acl
su	su	ADP	E	case
strutture	struttura	NOUN	S	obl
ancorate	ancorato	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
suolo	suolo	NOUN	S	obl
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
su	su	ADP	E	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	conj
semoventi	semovento	ADJ	A	amod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
strada	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
azionati	azionare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
energetici	energetico	NOUN	S	compound
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
utilizzati	utilizzare	VERB	V	conj
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
interno	interno	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
delimitati	delimitato	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
stabilimenti	stabilimento	NOUN	S	nmod
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
agricolo	agricolo	ADJ	A	amod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
laboratori	laboratorio	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
cantieri	cantiere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
ricerche	ricerca	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
forze	forza	NOUN	S	conj
endogene	endogeno	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
cantieri	cantiere	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
costruzione	costruzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
azionamento	azionamentere	NOUN	V	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
macchine	macchina	NOUN	S	nmod
impiegate	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
porti	porto	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ammesse	ammettere	VERB	V	conj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
circolazione	circolazione	NOUN	S	obl
su	su	ADP	E	case
strada	strada	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ad	a	ADP	E	case
uso	uso	NOUN	S	conj
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	advcl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
movimentazione	movimentazione	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
merci	merce	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
trasbordo	trasbordo	NOUN	S	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquota	aliquotere	NOUN	S	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
impiegato	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cantiere	cantiere	VERB	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	conj
fissi	fisso	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
operazioni	operazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
campo	campo	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
coltivazione	coltivazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
idrocarburi	idrocarburo	NOUN	S	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	compound
11,73	11,73	NUM	N	compound
per	per	ADP	E	case
1000	1000	NUM	N	obl
mc	mc	NOUN	S	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
ABROGATO	ABROGATO	PROPN	SP	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	PROPN	E_RD	punct
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
DICEMBRE	DICEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2019	2019	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
160	160	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

12	12	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Azionamento	azionamento	NOUN	S	nsubj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autovetture	autovettura	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
noleggio	noleggio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
piazza	piazza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
compresi	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
i	il	DET	RD	det
motoscafi	motoscafo	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
che	che	CCONJ	CC	advmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
talune	taluno	DET	DI	det
località	località	NOUN	S	obl
sostituiscono	sostituiscere	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
le	il	DET	RD	det
vetture	vettura	NOUN	S	obj
da	da	ADP	E	case
piazza	piazza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
quelli	quello	PRON	PD	conj
lacuali	lacuale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
banchina	banchina	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
persone	persona	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	obj
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
359,00	359,00	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	compound
........................	........................	PUNCT	FS	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
330,00	330,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
...	...	PUNCT	FF	punct
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
aliquota	aliquoto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
...	.	PUNCT	FF	punct
40	40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
aliquota	aliquoto	NOUN	S	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
normale	normale	ADJ	A	xcomp
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

L'	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
è	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
concessa	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
entro	entro	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
i	il	DET	RD	det
seguenti	seguente	ADJ	A	amod
quantitativi	quantitativo	NOUN	S	obl
giornalieri	giornaliero	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
presumendo	presumere	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
caso	caso	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
alimentazione	alimentazione	NOUN	S	nmod
promiscua	promiscuo	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
a	a	ADP	E	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
un	uno	DET	RI	det
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
gas	gas	NOUN	S	conj
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
pari	pari	ADJ	A	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
70	70	NUM	N	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumo	consumo	NOUN	S	nmod
totale	totale	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

a	a	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
litri	litro	NOUN	S	ROOT
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metri	metro	NOUN	S	conj
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	conj
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
autovettura	autovettura	NOUN	S	nmod
circolante	circolante	ADV	B	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	obl
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

b	b	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
litri	litro	NOUN	S	ROOT
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metri	metro	NOUN	S	conj
cubi	cubi	PROPN	S	nmod
14	14	NUM	N	nummod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
autovettura	autovettura	NOUN	S	nmod
circolante	circolante	ADV	B	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	nmod
con	con	ADP	E	case
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
superiore	superiore	ADJ	A	amod
a	a	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ma	ma	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
500.000	500.000	NUM	N	nummod
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	conj
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

c	c	X	X	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
litri	litro	NOUN	S	ROOT
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
metri	metro	NOUN	S	conj
cubi	cubi	PROPN	SP	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gas	gas	NOUN	S	obl
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
per	per	ADP	E	case
ogni	ogni	DET	DI	det
autovettura	autovettura	NOUN	S	nmod
circolante	circolante	ADV	B	dep

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comuni	comune	NOUN	S	obl
con	con	ADP	E	case
popolazione	popolazione	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
100.000	100.000	NUM	N	nummod
abitanti	abitante	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
meno	meno	ADV	B	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
94	94	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
13	13	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
Azionamento	azionamento	NOUN	S	ROOT
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoambulanze	autoambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammalati	ammalato	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
feriti	ferito	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
vari	vario	ADJ	A	amod
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronto	pronto	ADJ	A	amod
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
da	da	ADP	E	mark

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
determinare	determinare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
provvedimento	provvedimento	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
amministrazione	amministrazione	NOUN	S	nmod
finanziaria	finanziario	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
nei	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
limiti	limite	NOUN	S	obl
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
con	con	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
modalità	modalità	NOUN	S	conj
stabiliti	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
il	il	DET	RD	det
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
cui	cui	PRON	S	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
):	):	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
VOCE	VOCE	PROPN	SP	nmod
SOPPRESSA	SOPPRESSA	PROPN	SP	compound
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	nmod
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
OTTOBRE	OTTOBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	NOUN	S	nmod
159	159	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
CONVERTITO	CONVERTITO	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
CON	cON	ADP	E	case
MODIFICAZIONI	MODIFICAZIONI	NOUN	S	nmod
DALLA	DALLA	ADJ	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
NOVEMBRE	NOVEMBRE	PROPN	SP	nmod
2007	2007	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
222	222	NUM	N	nummod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

359,00	359,00	NUM	N	nummod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
............................	............................	PUNCT	FS	punct

euro	euro	NOUN	S	ROOT
330,00	330,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
..	..	PUNCT	FS	punct

40	40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	ROOT
normali	normale	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
.......................	.......................	PUNCT	FS	punct

40	40	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
cento	cento	NUM	N	nummod
aliquota	aliquotere	NOUN	S	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Le	il	DET	RD	det
agevolazioni	agevolazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
previste	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
autovettura	autovettura	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
noleggio	noleggio	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	case
piazza	piazza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
le	il	DET	RD	det
autoambulanze	autoambulanza	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punti	punto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
13	13	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux
concesse	concedere	VERB	V	ROOT
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	obl
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
utilizzare	utilizzare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
in	in	ADP	E	case
compensazione	compensazione	NOUN	S	obl
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
9	9	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
1997	1997	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
241	241	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ovvero	ovvero	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
mediante	mediante	ADP	E	case
buoni	buono	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

I	il	DET	RD	det
crediti	credito	NOUN	S	nsubj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
i	il	DET	RD	det
buoni	buono	NOUN	S	conj
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
concorrono	concorrere	VERB	V	ROOT

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
formazione	formazione	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
reddito	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
imponibile	imponibile	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
vanno	andare	AUX	VA	aux:pass
considerati	considerare	VERB	V	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
fini	fine	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rapporto	rapporto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
63	63	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
redditi	reddito	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	advcl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Repubblica	repubblica	NOUN	S	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	obl
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1986	1986	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
917	917	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	ROOT
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
14	14	NUM	N	compound
.	.	PUNCT	FF	punct

NUMERO	NUMERO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
SOPPRESSO	SOPPRESSO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
DAL	DAL	PROPN	SP	flat:name
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
27	27	NUM	N	nummod
GENNAIO	GENNAIO	PROPN	SP	nmod
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
N.	N.	PROPN	SP	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
liquefatti	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
utilizzati	utilizzato	VERB	V	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
impianti	impianto	NOUN	S	nmod
centralizzati	centralizzare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dagli	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
autobus	autobus	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
urbani	urbano	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
extraurbani	extraurbano	NOUN	A	conj
adibiti	adibire	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
servizio	servizio	NOUN	S	obl
pubblico	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
10	10	NUM	N	nummod
%	%	SYM	SYM	nsubj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
aliquota	aliquotere	VERB	V	ROOT
normale	normale	ADJ	A	advmod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
16	16	NUM	N	nummod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Oli	oli	PROPN	S	ROOT
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	flat:name
iniettati	iniettare	VERB	V	acl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
negli	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
altiforni	altiforno	NOUN	S	obl
per	per	ADP	E	case
la	il	DET	RD	det
realizzazione	realizzazione	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
processi	processo	NOUN	S	nmod
produttivi	produttivo	ADJ	A	amod
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	S	amod


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
16-bis	16-bis	NUM	N	obj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Prodotti	prodotto	NOUN	S	ROOT
energetici	energetico	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
impiegati	impiegare	VERB	V	acl
dalle	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
Forze	forza	NOUN	S	obl:agent
armate	armato	ADJ	A	amod
nazionali	nazionale	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
consentiti	consentito	ADJ	A	amod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Carburanti	carburanti	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
motori	motore	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Benzina	Benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	compound
359,00	359,00	NUM	N	flat
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	SP	ROOT
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
330,00	330,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
di	di	ADP	E	case
petrolio	petrolio	NOUN	S	nmod
liquefatto	liquefatto	ADJ	A	amod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
esenzione	esenzione	NOUN	A	flat:name

;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
Gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
esenzione	esenzione	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Combustibili	combustibile	NOUN	S	ROOT
per	per	ADP	E	case
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	SP	ROOT
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
21,00	21,00	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
litri	litro	NOUN	S	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	ROOT
zero	zero	NUM	N	compound
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Gas	gas	NOUN	S	ROOT
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
euro	euro	NOUN	S	nmod
11,66	11,66	NUM	N	nummod
per	per	ADP	E	case
1.000	1.000	NUM	N	nummod
metri	metro	NOUN	S	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
cubi	cubi	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct




	



	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------------	--------------------	PROPN	SP	nmod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

Per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
aviazione	aviazione	NOUN	S	obl
privata	privato	ADJ	A	amod
da	da	ADP	E	case
diporto	diporto	ADJ	A	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
imbarcazioni	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	conj
private	privato	ADJ	A	amod

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
diporto	diporto	NOUN	SP	nmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
intende	intendere	VERB	V	ROOT
l'	il	DET	RD	det
uso	uso	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
aeromobile	aeromobile	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
una	uno	DET	RI	det
imbarcazione	imbarcazione	NOUN	S	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
proprietario	proprietario	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
persona	persona	NOUN	S	conj
fisica	fisico	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
giuridica	giuridico	ADJ	A	conj

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
autorizzata	autorizzare	VERB	A	amod
ad	a	ADP	E	mark
utilizzarli	utilizzare li	VERB	V_PC	xcomp
in	in	ADP	E	case
virtù	virtù	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
un	uno	DET	RI	det
contratto	contratto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
locazione	locazione	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
per	per	ADP	E	case
qualsiasi	qualsiasi	DET	DI	det
altro	altro	ADJ	A	amod
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopo	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
ed	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
in	in	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
particolare	particolare	NOUN	S	conj
per	per	ADP	E	case
scopi	scopo	NOUN	S	obl
diversi	diverso	ADJ	A	amod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
passeggeri	passeggero	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
merci	merce	NOUN	S	conj
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
prestazione	prestazione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
servizi	servizio	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	ADP	E	case
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	nmod
oneroso	oneroso	ADJ	A	amod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
conto	conto	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
autorità	autorità	NOUN	S	nmod
pubbliche	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct



	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
Per	per	ADP	E	case
gli	il	DET	RD	det
usi	uso	NOUN	S	obl

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
industriali	industriale	ADJ	A	amod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
GPL	GPL	PROPN	SP	nmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
rinvia	rinviare	VERB	V	ROOT
a	a	ADP	E	case
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obl
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obl:agent
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
relazione	relazione	NOUN	S	obl
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
individuazione	individuazione	NOUN	S	nmod
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
usi	uso	NOUN	S	nmod
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
domestici	domestico	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
gas	gas	NOUN	S	nmod
naturale	naturale	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	obl
23	23	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1998	1998	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
448	448	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	parataxis
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
La	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accise	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
vigenti	vigente	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	acl:relcl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Oli	Oli	PROPN	SP	nmod
minerali	minerale	NOUN	S	flat:name
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	nmod
I	I	ADJ	NO	amod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
successive	successivo	ADJ	A	amod
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
11	11	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegato	ADJ	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
testo	testo	NOUN	S	obl
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
la	il	DET	RD	det
misura	misura	NOUN	S	conj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
7	7	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	VA	aux:pass
rideterminate	rideterminare	VERB	V	ccomp
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1	1	NUM	N	obl
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2005	2005	NUM	N	flat
nelle	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
misure	misura	NOUN	S	obl
stabilite	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
nell'	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
allegato	allegato	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
annesso	annettere	VERB	V	acl
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
legge	legge	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
342	342	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
58	58	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	nsubj:pass
la	il	DET	RD	det
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
modifica	modifica	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2001	2001	NUM	N	flat
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	obj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
15	15	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2000	2000	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
388	388	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	conj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
normale	normale	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
riferimento	riferimento	NOUN	S	nmod
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
destinato	destinare	VERB	V	acl
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
impieghi	impiego	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
ivi	ivi	ADV	B	advmod
compreso	comprendere	VERB	V	acl
il	il	DET	RD	det
riscaldamento	riscaldamento	NOUN	S	obj
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
serre	serre	NOUN	V	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
quella	quello	PRON	PD	ccomp
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RI	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
19a	19a	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	AUX	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
29	29	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	conj
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

2	2	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2007	2007	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
26	26	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
l'	il	DET	RD	det
introduzione	introduzione	NOUN	S	advcl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
voce	voce	NOUN	S	nmod
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
oli	olio	ADJ	A	amod
vegetali	vegetale	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
modificati	modificare	VERB	V	acl
chimicamente	chimicamente	ADV	B	advmod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
è	essere	AUX	V	cop
subordinata	subordinato	ADJ	A	ROOT
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
sensi	senso	NOUN	S	obl
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
88	88	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
paragrafo	paragrafo	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Trattato	Trattato	PROPN	SP	nmod
istitutivo	istitutivo	ADJ	A	amod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Comunità	Comunità	PROPN	SP	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
preventiva	preventivo	ADJ	A	amod
approvazione	approvazione	NOUN	S	obl
da	da	ADP	E	case
parte	parte	NOUN	S	nmod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Commissione	commissione	NOUN	S	nmod
europea	europeo	ADJ	A	amod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

-------------	-------------	AUX	RD	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
36	36	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2008	2008	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
31/07/2008	31/07/2008	NUM	N	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
178	178	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronto	pronto	ADJ	A	amod
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	advmod
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	det
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azionamento	azionamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoambulanze	autoambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammalati	ammalato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
feriti	ferito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
aggiunti	aggiunto	NOUN	S	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
1358	1358	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Gruppo	gruppo	NOUN	S	appos
volontari	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
ambulanza	ambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Verolengo	Verolengo	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
TO	TO	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1359	1359	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
A.P.A.	A.P.A.	PROPN	SP	obj
Croce	Croce	PROPN	S	flat:name
verde	verde	ADJ	A	amod
Casale	Casale	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Casale	Casale	PROPN	SP	nmod
Monferrato	monferrato	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
AL	AL	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1360	1360	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	appos
volontari	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
autoambulanza	autoambulanza	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cortemilia	Cortemilia	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Cortemilia	Cortemilia	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CN	CN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1361	1361	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
V.A.R.	V.A.R.	PROPN	SP	obj
Volontari	Volontari	PROPN	SP	flat:name
ambulanza	ambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
Roero	Roero	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Canale	Canale	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CN	CN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1362	1362	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confraternita	confraternita	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
misericordia	misericordia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cuneo	Cuneo	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Cuneo	Cuneo	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1363	1363	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	obj
croce	croce	NOUN	S	compound
bianca	bianco	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Ormea	Ormea	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Ormea	Ormea	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
CN	CN	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1364	1364	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	obj
di	di	ADP	E	case
Sant'	Sant'	PROPN	SP	nmod
Andrea	Andrea	PROPN	SP	nmod
Onlus	Onlus	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Biandrate	Biandrate	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
NO	NO	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1365	1365	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct

«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Squadra	Squadra	PROPN	S	nmod
nautica	nautico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
salvamento	salvamento	NOUN	S	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Verbania	Verbania	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1366	1366	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	nmod
Lodigiana	Lodigiana	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Onlus	Onlus	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
S.	S.	PROPN	SP	nmod
Stefano	Stefano	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Lodigiano	Lodigiano	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
LO	LO	ADJ	NO	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1367	1367	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	nmod
San	San	PROPN	SP	nmod
Francesco	Francesco	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Onlus	Onlus	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Rivanazzano	Rivanazzano	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
PV	PV	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1368	1368	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
P.A.	P.A.	PROPN	SP	nmod
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
Malta	Malta	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Boissano	Boissano	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
SV	SV	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1369	1369	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	ROOT
città	città	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
Cervia	Cervia	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Cervia	Cervia	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
RA	RA	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1370	1370	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Società	società	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
mutuo	mutuo	ADJ	A	amod
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
croce	croce	NOUN	S	compound
azzurra	azzurro	ADJ	A	amod
Figline	Figline	PROPN	SP	nmod
Valdarno	Valdarno	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Onlus	Onlus	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Figline	Figline	PROPN	SP	nmod
Valdarno	Valdarno	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
FI	FI	PROPN	SP	appos
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1371	1371	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confraternita	confraternita	NOUN	S	compound
di	di	ADP	E	case
misericordia	misericordia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Terricciola-Selvatelle	Terricciola-Selvatelle	PROPN	SP	nmod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Terricciola	Terricciola	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
PI	PI	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1372	1372	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	compound
verde	verde	ADJ	A	amod
Torre	Torre	PROPN	SP	nmod
San	San	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Patrizio	Patrizio	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Torre	Torre	PROPN	SP	nmod
San	San	PROPN	SP	nmod
Patrizio	Patrizio	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
AP	AP	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1373	1373	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Confraternita	confraternita	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
misericordia	misericordia	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Melito	Melito	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Porto	Porto	PROPN	SP	nmod
Salvo	Salvo	PROPN	A	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Melito	Melito	PROPN	SP	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
Porto	Porto	PROPN	SP	nmod
Salvo	salvo	PROPN	SP	amod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
RC	RC	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1374	1374	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pubblica	pubblico	ADJ	A	amod
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
Croce	Croce	PROPN	SP	compound
Blu	Blu	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Sassari	Sassari	PROPN	SP	nmod
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1375	1375	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
A.V.S.	A.V.S.	PROPN	SP	conj
Tramatza	Tramatza	PROPN	SP	nmod
associazione	associazione	NOUN	S	nmod
volontari	volontario	ADJ	A	amod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	nmod
ONLUS	ONLUS	PROPN	SP	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
Tramatza	Tramatza	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
OR	OR	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
-------------	-------------	NOUN	SP	obl


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
Determinazione	determinazione	NOUN	S	nsubj
18	18	NUM	N	nummod
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2010	2010	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
28/8/2010	28/8/2010	NUM	N	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
201	201	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
All'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
elenco	elenco	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
assistenza	assistenza	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
di	di	ADP	E	case
pronto	pronto	ADJ	A	amod
soccorso	soccorso	NOUN	S	conj
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
hanno	avere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
titolo	titolo	NOUN	S	obj
alla	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
agevolazione	agevolazione	NOUN	S	obl
fiscale	fiscale	ADJ	A	amod
prevista	prevedere	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
punto	punto	NOUN	S	obl:agent
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nmod
legislative	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
concernenti	concernere	VERB	V	acl
le	il	DET	RD	det
imposte	imposta	NOUN	S	obj
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
produzione	produzione	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sui	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
consumi	consumo	NOUN	S	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
relative	relativo	ADJ	A	amod
sanzioni	sanzione	NOUN	S	conj
penali	penale	ADJ	A	amod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
amministrative	amministrativo	ADJ	A	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
approvato	approvare	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	obl
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
31	31	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
1993	1993	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
relativamente	relativamente	ADV	B	case
ai	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
carburanti	carburanto	NOUN	S	nmod
consumati	consumare	VERB	V	acl
per	per	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
azionamento	azionamento	NOUN	S	obl
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
autoambulanze	autoambulanza	NOUN	S	nmod
destinate	destinare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
trasporto	trasporto	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ammalati	ammalato	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
feriti	ferito	NOUN	S	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
pertinenza	pertinenza	NOUN	S	conj
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
enti	ente	NOUN	S	nmod
stessi	stesso	ADJ	A	amod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
sono	essere	AUX	V	cop
aggiunti	aggiunto	NOUN	S	advcl
:	:	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1400	1400	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	NOUN	S	obj
Angolana	Angolana	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Onlus	Onlus	PROPN	SP	flat:name
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Città	Città	PROPN	SP	nmod
S.	S.	PROPN	SP	flat:name
Angelo	Angelo	PROPN	SP	flat:name
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Pescara	Pescara	PROPN	SP	nmod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
;	;	PUNCT	FC	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep
1401	1401	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
«	«	PUNCT	FB	punct
Croce	croce	PROPN	SP	obj
Bianca	Bianca	PROPN	SP	amod
»	»	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
sede	sede	NOUN	S	obl
in	in	ADP	E	case
Siderno	Siderno	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
Reggio	Reggio	PROPN	SP	nmod
Calabria	Calabria	PROPN	SP	flat:name
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
72	72	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
73	73	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
La	il	DET	RD	det
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
30	30	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2018	2018	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
145	145	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
modificare	modificare	VERB	V	dep
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
22	22	NUM	N	nummod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	parataxis
conseguentemente	conseguentemente	ADV	B	advmod
disposto	disporre	ADJ	A	xcomp
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
57	57	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	obj
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
L'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nsubj
4-ter	4-ter	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
o	o	CCONJ	CC	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
-	-	PUNCT	FF	punct
legge	legge	NOUN	S	compound
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
193	193	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertito	ADJ	A	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2016	2016	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
225	225	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
introducendo	introdurre	VERB	V	advcl
il	il	DET	RD	det
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obj
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
26	26	NUM	N	nmod
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
1995	1995	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
stabilito	stabilire	VERB	V	acl:relcl
la	il	DET	RD	det
nuova	nuovo	ADJ	A	amod
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	obj
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
da	da	ADP	E	mark
applicare	applicare	VERB	V	acl
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	obl
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
superamento	superamento	NOUN	S	obl
degli	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
effetti	effetto	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
in	in	ADP	E	case
riduzione	riduzione	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
credito	credito	NOUN	S	nmod
d'	di	ADP	E	case
imposta	imposta	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Presidente	presidente	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Consiglio	consiglio	NOUN	S	nmod
dei	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
ministri	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
febbraio	febbraio	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
67	67	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	nmod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
si	si	PRON	PC	expl
interpreta	interpretare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
senso	senso	NOUN	S	obl
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
è	essere	AUX	V	advcl
da	da	ADP	E	mark
intendersi	intendere si	VERB	V_PC	ccomp
implicitamente	implicitamente	ADV	B	advmod
abrogato	abrogare	VERB	V	xcomp
l'	il	DET	RD	det
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	obj
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
234	234	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
secondo	secondo	ADJ	NO	case
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
legge	legge	NOUN	S	nmod
23	23	NUM	N	nmod
dicembre	dicembre	NOUN	S	flat
2014	2014	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
190	190	NUM	N	nummod
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

--------------	--------------	PROPN	SP	case


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
95	95	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	flat
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
3	3	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	PRON	PR	nsubj
in	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	case
allegata	allegata	ADJ	SP	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trova	trovare	VERB	V	advcl
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
indicato	indicare	VERB	V	acl
nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

Nel	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
medesimo	medesimo	ADJ	A	amod
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
trovano	trovare	VERB	V	ROOT
applicazione	applicazione	NOUN	S	obj
le	il	DET	RD	det
aliquote	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
ridotte	ridurre	VERB	V	acl
sulla	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
benzina	benzina	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	conj
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
12	12	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	case
allegata	allegata	NOUN	SP	flat:name
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

	
	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
21	21	NUM	N	flat:name
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
21	21	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
20	20	NUM	N	nummod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
51	51	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1-bis	1-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	dep
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	nmod
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dall'	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
b	b	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Ministro	ministro	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
economia	economia	NOUN	S	nmod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
delle	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
finanze	finanza	NOUN	S	conj
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
pubblicato	pubblicare	VERB	V	acl
nella	in il	ADP	E_RD	case
Gazzetta	gazzetta	NOUN	S	obl
Ufficiale	Ufficiale	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
90	90	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
16	16	NUM	N	nmod
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	dep
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	nmod
maggio	maggio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	nmod
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	dep
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	obl
aprile	aprile	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
8	8	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
101	101	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
24	24	NUM	N	nummod
giugno	giugno	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
04/07/2022	04/07/2022	PROPN	SP	flat:name
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
154	154	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
9	9	NUM	N	obl
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
2	2	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
102	102	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
19	19	NUM	N	flat:name
luglio	luglio	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
25/07/2022	25/07/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
172	172	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
103	103	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
9	9	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
115	115	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
22	22	NUM	N	obl
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
20	20	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
107	107	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nsubj
23	23	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
144	144	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
17	17	NUM	N	nummod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	obl
175	175	NUM	N	nummod
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	acl
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
4	4	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
citato	citato	ADJ	A	amod
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	acl:relcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
18	18	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
31	31	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
4	4	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
18	18	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nmod
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
105	105	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
30	30	NUM	N	flat:name
agosto	agosto	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
15/09/2022	15/09/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
216	216	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
21	21	NUM	N	obl
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
5	5	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
106	106	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
13	13	NUM	N	flat:name
settembre	settembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21/09/2022	21/09/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
221	221	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
6	6	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
17	17	NUM	N	obl
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
108	108	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

Il	il	DET	RD	det
Decreto	Decreto	PROPN	SP	nsubj
19	19	NUM	N	flat:name
ottobre	ottobre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
in	in	ADP	E	case
G.U.	G.U.	PROPN	SP	nmod
21/10/2022	21/10/2022	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
247	247	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	appos
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	appos
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
tabella	tabella	NOUN	S	nmod
A	A	PROPN	SP	case
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	obl
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
3	3	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	nsubj
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
111	111	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.L.	D.L.	PROPN	SP	nmod
18	18	NUM	N	flat:name
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
176	176	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
convertito	convertire	VERB	V	acl
con	con	ADP	E	case
modificazioni	modificazione	NOUN	S	obl
dalla	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
L.	lira	NOUN	S	nmod
13	13	NUM	N	nummod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	flat
2023	2023	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
6	6	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
In	in	ADP	E	case
dipendenza	dipendenza	NOUN	S	obl
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
rideterminazione	rideterminazione	NOUN	S	nmod
dell'	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nmod
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
stabilita	stabilire	VERB	V	acl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
a	a	ADP	E	mark
decorrere	decorrere	VERB	V	xcomp
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
fino	fino	ADV	B	case
al	a il	DET	E_RD	det
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
comma	comma	NOUN	S	obl
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
lettera	lettera	NOUN	S	nmod
a	a	NOUN	S	compound
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
numero	numero	NOUN	S	conj
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
l'	il	DET	RD	det
aliquota	aliquota	NOUN	S	nsubj:pass
di	di	ADP	E	case
accisa	accisa	NOUN	S	nmod
sul	su il	ADP	E_RD	case
gasolio	gasolio	NOUN	S	nmod
commerciale	commerciale	ADJ	A	amod
usato	usare	VERB	V	acl
come	come	ADP	E	case
carburante	carburante	NOUN	S	obl
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
numero	numero	NOUN	S	obl
4-bis	4-bis	NUM	N	nummod
della	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
Tabella	Tabella	PROPN	SP	nmod
A	A	ADP	E	nmod
allegata	allegare	NOUN	S	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
testo	testo	NOUN	S	nmod
unico	unico	ADJ	A	amod
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
decreto	decreto	NOUN	S	nmod
legislativo	legislativo	ADJ	A	amod
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nmod
504	504	NUM	N	nummod
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
1995	1995	NUM	N	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
non	non	ADV	BN	advmod
si	si	PRON	PC	expl:pass
applica	applicare	VERB	V	advcl
per	per	ADP	E	case
il	il	DET	RD	det
periodo	periodo	NOUN	S	obl
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
19	19	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
al	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
30	30	NUM	N	obl
novembre	novembre	NOUN	S	flat
2022	2022	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep

---------------	---------------	PROPN	SP	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
AGGIORNAMENTO	AGGIORNAMENTO	PROPN	SP	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
129	129	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct


	

	SPACE	_SP	dep
Il	il	DET	RD	det
D.Lgs	d.Lgs	NOUN	S	nmod
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct

28	28	NUM	N	nummod
marzo	marzo	NOUN	S	flat
2025	2025	NUM	N	flat
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
n.	numero	NOUN	S	nsubj
43	43	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
ha	avere	AUX	VA	aux
disposto	disporre	VERB	V	ROOT
(	(	PUNCT	FB	punct
con	con	ADP	E	case
l'	il	DET	RD	det
art.	articolo	NOUN	S	obl
8	8	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
comma	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
)	)	PUNCT	FB	punct
che	che	SCONJ	CS	mark
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
Le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	nsubj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
all'	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
1	1	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
fatto	fare	VERB	V	acl
salvo	salvo	ADJ	A	xcomp
quanto	quanto	PRON	PR	obj
previsto	prevedere	VERB	V	acl:relcl
dai	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
commi	comma	NOUN	S	obl:agent
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
3	3	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
4	4	NUM	N	conj
del	di il	ADP	E_RD	case
presente	presente	ADJ	A	amod
articolo	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
nonché	nonché	CCONJ	CC	cc
le	il	DET	RD	det
disposizioni	disposizione	NOUN	S	conj
di	di	ADP	E	case
cui	cui	PRON	PR	nmod
agli	a il	ADP	E_RD	case
articoli	articolo	NOUN	S	nmod
2	2	NUM	N	nummod
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
5	5	NUM	N	conj
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
commi	comma	NOUN	S	nmod
5	5	NUM	N	nummod
e	e	CCONJ	CC	cc
6	6	NUM	N	conj
,	,	PUNCT	FF	punct
hanno	avere	VERB	V	advcl
effetto	effetto	NOUN	S	obj
dal	da il	ADP	E_RD	case
1°	1°	ADJ	NO	amod
gennaio	gennaio	NOUN	S	obl
2026	2026	NUM	N	flat
"	"	PUNCT	FB	punct
.	.	PUNCT	FS	punct


	
	SPACE	_SP	dep